New showroom expands into the Indian Ocean Islands, featuring Kohler’s latest innovations, combining leading edge technology and design. Kohler Co., a global leader in the design and manufacture of kitchen and bath products, and first-time partner Supertech Equipment Ltd., a HYVEC Group company, open the doors to a showroom located in the heart of Mauritius in Emerald Park Centre on November 6, 2019. Covering a space of 70 square meters, the Kohler and HYVEC Group showroom features an array of the most innovative kitchen and bath collections, providing visitors with new dimensions of designed details and layers to create rich and dynamic environments that delight all the senses. “Kohler in partnership with HYVEC Group is optimistic that Mauritius has a huge growth potential as one of the strategic markets in Sub-Saharan Africa,” said Mr. Salil Sadanandan, President, Kohler Kitchen and Bath in South Asia, Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa. The launch featured dignitaries from HYVEC Group, Mr. David Kohler, President & CEO of Kohler Co., Mr. Salil Sadanandan and other influential leaders of the design community. “We have chosen one of the most central and highly accessible streets in the city as the new showroom location to cater to customers looking for range and innovation. The showroom is an inspirational hub to ignite creative ideas for a modern lifestyle and architectural designs for private properties alike,” said Mr. Azam Bholah, General Manager of Supertech Equipment Ltd., which is a subsidiary of HYVEC Group. Most of the brand’s key ranges will be available to interact with, including top releases such as the latest Components faucets collection, ModernLife toilet suite, Veil Bath with its sensuously sculpted form, Artist Editions vessels including the Sartorial Black, Shagreen and Derring editions which bring artistry and craft into the bathroom space, as well as, vibrant rose gold and vibrant brushed bronze faucet collections ALEO and ALEO+. Mr. Sadanandan added, “The new showroom is created and designed by Kohler’s design team with designs for kitchens and bathrooms, and as a casual meeting place for visitors to discuss new projects or renovations. This showroom is a place to display KOHLER products and a destination for developers, architects and consumers to come together and get inspired.” The new showroom is open from 9 am to 5 pm Monday to Friday and 9 am to 3:30 pm on Saturday. For more information, please visit www.africa.kohler.com The new showroom features myriad KOHLER products, including: The collection features a modern design with simple, clean lines and seamless curves that provide a superior blend of comfort and convenience. Every aspect from the rimless bowl to the easy-to-clean FDI coating has been crafted to deliver the ultimate hygiene without compromising on style and aesthetics. Ergonomically suited to one’s body, the sculpted curves of the Veil Freestanding Bath provide a deeper, more relaxing soak. The Sartorial collection pays homage to the refined elegance of 19th-century European textiles. Inspired by an exuberant French block print from 1850, this intricate paisley pattern has an organic quality, showcased beautifully on the Carillon vessel sink. Pair it with the Sartorial Herringbone sink [two sinks] for a coordinated master bath vanity. The Shagreen collection celebrates the subtle coloring and distinctive pebbled texture of natural shark and ray leather. Inspired by oil spot glazes that originated in China during the Song Dynasty, a two-step glaze process uses minerals to create interplay of shimmery and matte effects. A striking complement to the oval Caxton sink, the rich glazed finish shows iridescent pearly tones and a gently granulated texture similar to leather. Each sink’s pattern, formed through an organic process, is unique. Inspired by studio pottery, the Derring collection celebrates the inherent beauty and authenticity of handcrafted ceramics. Each sink is a one-of-a-kind creation, finished with unique artisanal glazes that produce fascinating surface effects. A hand-carved texture accentuates the subtle tonal variations of the glazes. Featured in neutral hues, this sink can be the centerpiece of your bath, or it can serve as a unifying element that pulls everything else together. This vessel sink offers a recessed, low-profile installation that sits just above your counter. Kohler Africa (Pty) Ltd., a subsidiary of Kohler Co., was established in 2014 with distribution in Southern, Eastern and Western Africa. The headquarters in Johannesburg also features the first experiential Kohler Gallery showcasing high quality kitchen and bath products. Kohler Africa works with leading global architectural and design firms to create inspiring kitchen and bath projects across the region. Founded in 1873 and headquartered in Kohler, Wisconsin, Kohler Co. is one of America’s oldest and largest privately held companies comprised of nearly 37,000 associates. With more than 50 manufacturing locations worldwide, Kohler is a global leader in the design and innovation of kitchen and bath products; engines and power systems; tile; and owner/operator of two of the world’s finest five-star hospitality and golf resort destinations in Kohler, Wisconsin, and St. Andrews, Scotland. Kohler’s Whistling Straits golf course will host the 2020 Ryder Cup.