Construction of the Murang’a substation in Kenya nears completion. Kenya Power Company (KPC) Manager, Eng. Harrison Kamau, confirmed the report and said that the project will be completed and ready for commissioning by end of December. The 7.5MVA substation aims to boost power supply in Murang’a. It is being funded at Kenya Power Company (KPC) at a cost of US $3m. Currently it is at 65% completion. It is projected to boost power output in the area and ensure stable electricity supply in an area of 40 kilometer radius. Also Read:Construction of Groeipunt transmission substation in South Africa now 80% complete Gatanga Sub County,  Gatura area and some parts of neighbouring Kiambu County are some of the project beneficiaries. The substation will increase power capacity to support connections of more than 7,000 homesteads. “When the substation is fully complete, it will will ensure stable power supply and support manufacturing companies around the area. Power blackouts will be minimized. The government is also implementing several power projects in the County, which will lead to universal homestead electricity connections in year 2022,” said Eng. Kamau. “Electricity power connectivity in the county currently stands at 51.1% and the government plans to attain 100% by 2022. We have initiated several projects which are funded by the national government at a cost of US $20m and we are determined we will achieve targeted power connection in this county,” Kamau added. The energy sector in Kenya is largely dominated by petroleum and electricity, with wood fuel providing the basic energy needs of the rural communities, urban poor, and the informal sector. An analysis of the national energy shows heavy dependency on wood fuel and other biomass that account for 68% of the total energy consumption (petroleum 22%, electricity 9%, others account for 1%). Electricity access in Kenya is low despite the government’s ambitious target to increase electricity connectivity from the current 15% to at least 65% by the year 2022. 