Ghana’s Minister of Railways Development, Mr. Joe Ghartey has confirmed that the first 100km of the 1000km Ghana-Burkina Faso railway line will be complete by August 2020. According to him, construction works on the stretch, which starts from Tema in the Greater Accra Region to Mpakadan in the Volta Region has commenced and the contractors are working feverishly to ensure they met the deadlines. The railway line is part of the main Ghana-Burkina inter connection project which will link the two West African countries and improve trade relations between Ghana and Burkina Faso. Mr Ghartey said his government was committed to delivering a modern railway system that will ease movement of people and goods thus improving trade not only for the people of Ghana but also its neighboring countries. The Minister further revealed that the first stretch of 100km was expected not to cost more than US $600m. Mr Ghartey explained that even though by international standards, a kilometre of the standard gauge cost between US $6m and US $7m, Ghana’s own was estimated at about US $4.5m. The Minister also revealed that although the construction was being undertaken by Afcons of India, more than 80% of the work force were Ghanaians. Also Read:First phase of Tanzania SGR likely to miss deadline Mr Ghartey said the land valuation and the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources had been tasked to undertake the valuation and compensation for the affected land owners. “Compensation will be paid to all whose land or properties maybe affected, but I must emphasise that trespassers will not be compensated in any way or form,” added. He said so far four companies had been shortlisted to participate in the building of the remaining 900km, adding that this is not going to be a Public Private Partnership, but rather on Build Operate and Transfer basis. The project when completed would see, Tema, Mpakadan, Hohoe, Jasikan, Nkwanta, Bimbimla, Yendi, Sheini, Tamale, Bolgatanga, Navrongo and Paga all connected by railway.