The government of Ghana has secured US $9m funds for upgrading of 15 technical education institutions. The fund is a concessionary loan from China to build first-class technical institutions for skill training towards ensuring self-reliance and attaining the industrialization transformation agenda. Vice President Bawumia made the announcement during the sod-cutting ceremony of the TVET project at the Tema Technical Institute and said that each of the institutions will see construction of state-of-the-art workshops for Mechanical Engineering, Automobile  Engineering, Civil Engineering and Welding Engineering  under the Technical. Vocational Training and Upgrading Project. “Construction of the facilities will enhance skill training of the country’s human resource capacity in the area of technical and vocational fields, resulting to workforce competitive on the job market and improve the general competitiveness of the nation, globally,” said Bawumia. Also Read:Kenya’s Kikambala/Vipingo village to have an eco-friendly school Upon completion,the institution will benefit over 30,000 students. Tutors will also adapt innovative teaching methods to impart knowledge to the students. The Vice president acknowledged that President Nana Akufo-Addo’s government had made TVET education integral part of the Free Senior High School Policy to equip students with requisite skills, adding that, the workforce would be utilised for the One-District, One Factory initiative across the country. “Our ultimate aim is to take Ghana to a point beyond aid, where we have a skilled workforce to promote industrialization and self-reliance. And this is why we are introducing fundamental reforms to this sector in our effort to mainstream it as a first, and not a last, option for young Ghanaians,” said Bawumia. Madam SUN Chunlan, the Chinese Vice Premier, on his part assured of Chinese government’s resolve to support Ghana’s infrastructural and industrialization drive to achieve economic development. 