Autogate-autodoor was founded in 1985 by Brian Field and George Lowe. Over the years the company has accumulated a high level of expertise, making us leaders in the manufacture and supply of products which provide access control hardware solutions in a variety of fields. The company continues to strive to meet the needs of a dynamic market place as they invest in product development, total quality assurance, and better service for their clients. They designs and development section caters for specific customer requirements in all areas of access control hardware. The company has been manufacturing turnstiles in a variety of configurations for over 30 years. These turnstiles have a wide range of applications for high security and high volume access control available in a range of colours with an option to match corporate colour schemes. The stainless steel arms do not tarnish or scratch and the high quality finish will withstand continuous and prolonged use even in hostile environments. The Autogate turnstile mechanism is extremely robust and has been designed and manufactured from the highest quality materials providing many years of trouble free service. The company also manufactures personnel barriers in a variety of configurations. These personnel barriers have a wide range of applications for medium security and high volume access control. Available in a range of colours with an option to match corporate colour schemes. The toughened glass arm compliments the high quality finish and withstands continuous and prolonged use in extremely high traffic flow situations. The company manufactures special needs gates in a variety of configurations. These special needs gates enable access for wheelchairs furniture etc. that cannot gain access though a turnstile. The products are available in a range of colours with an option to match corporate colour schemes. The toughened glass infill compliments the high quality finish and withstands continuous and prolonged use in low traffic flow situations. AUTOGATE special needs gates are designed to provide many years of maintenance-free service. The company manufactures both swing and sliding gates of any size. (Industrial) SPECS: Material sizes vary with the sizes of the gate; increasing as the gate increases in length or height WHEELS: Fully machined wheels with sealed ball racers – 100mm OD. Bearings – 62mm OD. Wheels/ bearing assembly has polyurethane bushings, preventing corrugations forming on track Extremely quiet operation