Only a decade back, homes and businesses devastated by floodwater were considered lost. However, with technological innovations, properties damaged by a flood can now be restored to their former state. The process isn’t easy, as it involves extensive drying and inspections to find remaining pockets of moisture. There’s also an additional risk that the water has damaged electrical equipment or wiring. If the renovation requires extensive work, the less the time frame before the flood subsides and remodeling, the easier it becomes to restore the property. Here are the essential steps. The first step in restoring a property is to remove stagnant water. The longer the water sits, the more expensive the damage will be. A submersible pump is often used to remove water accumulations in various structures around the promises. These pumps are highly efficient for their job and make drying of entire sections easier. The rule is that the standing water must be removed within 48 hours to decrease the chances of unhealthy organisms. If something in your home can’t get dry within 48 hours, it needs to go. This also includes carpets and furniture. When the stagnant water is hone, it’s essential to get an idea of the extent of water damage, so you can take the first effective steps against mold growth. For this, you need detection equipment to collect and appropriately map the moisture values for your property. Licensed technicians who perform these inspections use much more advanced infrared and digital imaging to determine the damage extent without further damaging your floors and walls. After the moisture is mapped, the house needs to be treated against mold and mildew. Residual stagnant water in any property, residential or business, creates an ideal habitat for fungal forms to thrive, so countermeasures are needed as soon as possible. Water clean-up professionals recommend using special fungicide detergents to sterilize the area and make the surroundings unfavorable for mold growth. Deodorization and ventilation measures during this step can also help remove airborne contaminants, mold spores, and unpleasant odors. The next step makes sure the property is completely dry, with humidity brought back to its normal state after the flood. There are various drying techniques, and each is used depending on the situation’s severity. Air movers are used to dry the premises by controlling humidity an improving air circulation. Section by section, air movers remove liquids from porous materials like carpets and wood. Dehumidifiers remove moisture from the air and help remove then remaining water from your home. while desiccant humidifiers use raw materials that naturally absorb moisture from the environment, refrigerant dehumidifiers cool the air to reduce its ability to retain water. Even under normal conditions, the kitchen and bathroom are major sources of moisture and airborne particles. In a case of flood, these “wet” areas are expected to be severely damaged, due to many plumbing fixtures and drain that these rooms can’t do without. On the other hand, this can be an excellent opportunity to renovate these spaces from top to bottom. In Australia, for example, these two rooms are among the top-ranking renovation priorities, so it shouldn’t come as a surprise that experts for kitchen and bathroom renovations in Sydney are highly sought after. Managing your renovation project from start to finish, they will recommend optimal layout, features, fixtures, and materials for your kitchen or bathroom remodel, as well as waterproofing and ventilation solutions. After your clean, dry, and deodorize the framing, you need to get water-resistant replacements. Materials like fiberglass wall insulation are popular, but highly inadequate in this case, as it soaks up water like a sponge. Instead, consider extruded polystyrene foam boards for insulation. Replace the drywall with cement board, since it doesn’t absorb water at all. This way you don’t need to worry about future mold infestations. You can also use PVC-based boards for the baseboard while avoiding wood trim completely. This ensures that, even if your carpet gets wet, your walls will stay dry. Finish off the surfaces with waterproof paint. Although the exterior walls and windows are among the toughest parts of your home, when they come under the forces of nature, such as the flooding torrent carrying debris and tree limbs, it’s likely to expect they will sustain some damage. If you live in a hurricane-prone area, consider replacing your current choices for hurricane-rated options, ensuring that the rules meet your city code. Check your house exterior for signs of damage. Solid brick exteriors are among the best materials for resisting water damage, and for extra protection, consider using waterproof bricks. With the right techniques and a bit of professional help, a successful flood clean-up is possible, with a significant amount of damage to your home being averted. Each job is unique, though, and requires immediate attention, investigation, and solution.