The government of Kenya has been presented with two designs for the construction of the Lokichar-Lamu crude oil pipeline (LLCOP). The two designs, by British firm Wood Group Plc., have a price variation of US $122.2m. The East African country can opt for a pipeline with onshore storage facilities that would cost US $1.2bn to build or one with floating storage facilities at a cost of US $1.1bn. Also Read: Construction of Kenya’s Turkana-Lamu crude pipeline to begin next year In both cases, the proposals indicate that the construction of the onshore pipeline will cost US $568.2m, pump stations US $164.4m with the difference mainly being in the marine terminal that will cost US $145.9m for onshore and US $45m for floating storage. About US $113.6m is set aside for the company that will be contracted to execute the project under an engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) basis, and approximately US $13.1m for the supervising firm. The EPC tendering process is on the go with the final investment decision expected to be reached in the second half of next year. Partners in this project have been keen to ensure the project does not encounter environmental-related obstacles from conservationists and environmentalists, as manifested in the front end engineering design (FEED) and the environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA) studies. The ESIA, undertaken by Golder, a British consultancy firm in partnership with the Kenyan based ESF Consultants, has been submitted to the National Environment Management Authority and it is expected to be approved by May 2020. The FEED report indicates that the pipeline will divert in areas where it could have adverse environmental implications on wildlife. In particular, a 3km diversion has been created along its path in Samburu County to protect the habitat of the Grevy’s Zebra. This has resulted in a 9% increase in the length of the pipeline to 824km. ordinarily, the straight line distance between the start and finish points would be 756km. 