The Renewable Energy Performance Platform (REPP) has issued a gender-themed request for proposals (RFP) targeting women-led renewable energy projects in Africa. Deadline for applications has been slated for 15 January 2020 at 4pm (UTC). By focusing on women in particular, UK-government funded REPP is aiming to channel sources of funding to help create equal opportunities for women in the continent’s rapidly expanding renewable energy sector. The call follows a recent report by Global Entrepreneurship Monitor that found there are over 250 million women entrepreneurs globally, with the highest prevalence of emerging female entrepreneurs being in sub-Saharan African – and at more than double the global average. However, businesswomen across the region face a raft of gender-specific challenges accessing finance, with the African Development Bank previously estimating a $20 billion financing gap for African women. To address this, the RFP is seeking applications exclusively from: Successful applicants stand to benefit from a host of financing services and support tailored to their unique circumstances and needs, ranging from technical assistance and capacity building to development loans, gap financing and access to risk mitigation instruments. Geoff Sinclair, managing director at Camco Clean Energy, which manages REPP, said: “Women are central to the growth of a fair, affordable and clean energy future for Africa, but they are currently grossly underrepresented in the renewables sector, just as they are across the energy sector as a whole. Sinclair continued: “REPP is seeking to address this damaging imbalance by calling for applications from projects where women are the leaders, the innovators and the beneficiaries, so that we can help provide access to funding to bring their plans to life and help unleash the immense opportunity women offer for economic and social development in Africa.” Get involved in the Women in Power sessions at the African Utility Week and POWERGEN Africa conference. Click here to register to attend or for more information about the event. The deadline for submitting applications to the REPP is 15 January 2020 at 4pm (UTC). Detailed information about the application, evaluation and selection process can be found on the REPP website here. All queries should be emailed to rfp@camco.energy.