The construction of the Port of Durban’s cruise terminal has begun after Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA) and the KwaZulu Cruise Terminal (KCT) consortium, in which MSC Cruises is a partner alongside empowered investment entity Africa Armada Consortium, broke ground for the project. KCT, which holds a 25-year port concession from TNPA to finance, construct, operate, maintain and transfer the new Cruise Terminal Facility in the Port of Durban at more than US $13.5m, has been finalizing the detailed design of the Cruise Terminal Building and the anticipated commissioning of the project in 2020/21. Also Read: Construction of a new Cruise Terminal to begin soon in Durban, South Africa According to the port general manager, Mr. Moshe Motlohi, the terminal development is connected with the eThekwini Municipality’s beachfront promenade extension from uShaka beach southwards to the harbor entrance, as well as the future development of Durban Point Waterfront. TNPA plans to start construction of its section of the walkway next year which will connect to the terminal, allowing cruise passengers to access and connect to the central beachfront with relative ease and safety. Motlohi said that this project is going to change the face of Durban, adding that the cruise industry is the fastest-growing type of the leisure travel market, and TNPA’s decision to build a dedicated cruise terminal in the port is well backed up. The green and energy-efficient terminal will boast of a couple of features and facilities including a retail section, as well as training, conferencing and events facilities. The project comes at a time when South Africa requires a boost to tourism infrastructure in order to accommodate more local and international vacationers according to MSC. Ross Volk, the managing director of MSC Cruises South Africa and KCT director said that the multi-user terminal will make Durban an even more desirable destination for cruise ships from all over the world, which will significantly boost tourism numbers, create thousands of jobs and lead to supplier development. The terminal is expected to be operational from January 2021.