Once every few years, there comes a time when you think about changing certain things about your home. Sometimes you just want to change the design and the whole feel of the place, but other times a renovation is required for the convenience of a well-functioning home. One of the most used and important spaces in the home is the bathroom. Going through a bathroom renovation can be quite a challenge, especially when it’s your first time doing so. For this reason, the following are 5 tips that you can implement yourself when attempting your own bathroom makeover. 1.Planning Like any successful project, your bathroom renovation needs a well-thought-out plan. Before you can think about the design, things to buy or anything that has to do with the plumbing, you should decide what exactly will be the purpose of this bathroom. Will it be used by more than two people on a regular basis? Will you need two sinks? Is there enough space for a bathtub, or should you just stick to a shower? How much do you want to spend on this whole thing? There’s a large number of questions you need to ask yourself before actively doing something. When you figure out all the answers, your set plan will be your best friend throughout this renovation journey. The most fun part of the entire process of renovating has to be the design stage. It’s the stage where you can put all the latest ideas and trends you’ve been reading about into practice, to create a space that you’ve always been dreaming about. You can start off by looking through as many magazines and websites as possible, searching for that perfect design, but keeping an open eye for something out of the ordinary. Take this as your inspiration before you go shopping and keep in mind that you don’t have to invest all of your money in order to recreate bathrooms you might have seen in a magazine; you just need to get a bit creative and find the best alternatives for your unique situation. More so, while a great design is mandatory, make sure to always check the quality, especially when it comes to durable tiles. Inevitably, with any home improvement, there comes a time when someone needs to get their hands dirty. And that someone can either be you or a professional. One of the most important things to do when renovating your bathroom is to replace the plumbing, and that still stands even if you are looking at a low budget kind of renovation. That way you can ensure everything runs smoothly as the pipes won’t get clogged with calcium residue.  Also, don’t forget about the waterproofing, as it’s one of the most important features of any well functioning bathroom — withstanding moisture and reducing the chance of mold build-up. Storage in a bathroom can be absolutely critical, especially when you’re dealing with limited space. Very frequently, storage can be the main reason why people decide to renovate their bathrooms in the first place. From bathroom vanities to mirror cabinets, make sure you create the perfect space where you can do your daily routine while having everything you need at hand.  More so, don’t waste any space and learn how to use the walls for storage, but also don’t overdo it and end up with obstacles on your way to the shower. In order to create a beautiful and inviting space, you need to pay close attention to the lighting in any room that you want to renovate and the bathroom is no exception. The tricky part is that sometimes you need very strong, bright lightning in the bathroom for whenever you’re shaving or doing your makeup or anything like that; but sometimes, in case you want to relax, you want to be able to dim the lights and take a long, relaxing bath. For this reason, it’s important to consider the kind of lighting fixtures you’d want in there and of course the ability to install dimmable switches and appropriate lightbulbs to create the perfect mood. Of course, no matter how many lighting fixtures you decide to install, don’t forget that natural light is still king and you should work towards getting as much of it in there, as possible. A change is always welcome, but when it comes to renovating your bathroom, you need to understand the importance of a well-designed plan. This is a two-part journey: the technical one and the creative one. Therefore, in order to end up with a well functioning bathroom space, you need to put an equal amount of effort into both parts so you can reap the rewards on the other end.