Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, imports virtually all its fuel due to sclerotic and underutilised refineries, and even the state oil company is looking to the 650,000 barrel per day (bpd) Dangote refinery to help address this. The Group has embarked on a landmark integrated Refinery and Petrochemical project. This massive project is the largest industrial complex in the history of Nigeria which is scheduled to be completed by 2020. This huge group company met with ELKON’s quality in 2014. They purchased 1 unit Mobil Master – 135 Jaguar Mobile Concrete Batching Plant under AG-Dangote Construction in Nigeria for their road projects. After being satisfied with ELKON quality, they purchased same batching plant again and 1 unit ELKOMIX – 60 QUICK MASTER Compact Batching Plant. Now, Dangote Company chose again like many other international and local companies for the biggest oil refinery project in Africa. The company purchased 4 units ELKOMIX – 135 Stationary Concrete Batching Plant for this giant project. ELKOMIX – 135 Stationary Batching Plant which is equipped with 4500/3000 l. Twinshaft Mixer with its high-efficient mixing system provides up to 120-135 m3 concrete per hour. The configuration has T type aggregate weighing system, T type aggregate weighing system provides faster aggregate weighing time with 2 separate aggregate weigh hopper. ELKON, which aims to use the highest production technology and innovation, offers a wide product range for its customers including mobile, compact, stationary and on-site concrete batching plants along with trailer type concrete pumps, concrete recycling plants, , cement silos, cement feeding systems and concrete block making machines to meet the various requirements of its customers from different geographies. Moreover, ELKON offers concrete paving and block machines, tailor-made concrete batching plants and concrete delivery systems like high speed concrete travelling buckets, ground buckets, etc. for production of concrete precast industry. ELKON products has proven its high performance, durability and efficiency as being the first choice of the world’s leading construction, precast and ready-mix companies for their many different projects. ELKON is a global company with over 3500 concrete batching plants installed in more than 120 countries in 6 continents. 