Refurbishment works on Victoria Falls Hotel in Zimbabwe is set to begin. Acting general manager of the hotel, Mr Farai Chimba made the announcement and said that works will start in January 2020 and set for completion by early 2021. For only the fifth time in its 115-year history The Victoria Falls Hotel is to undergo a major refashioning and refurbishment programme, starting January 2020 and set for completion by early 2021. Also Read:Construction of the Villa Diyafa Boutique Hotel Morocco completed According to Mr Farai the refurbishment is aimed at the creation of a stylish marriage of the hotel’s unique historic heritage and introduction of the most modern amenities and facilities expected by top-end travelers of the 21st century. “The revamp works upon completion will enhance the Victoria Falls Hotel’s reputation as one of Africa’s most significant travel and tourism assets and break exciting new ground in the Zimbabwean hospitality industry,” said the Acting Manager. The project will focus more on public areas, as well as the bedrooms and suites, apart from those in The Stables Wing. This will be experienced through furniture, décor, ornaments, features and facilities, with an emphasis on light, bright, cool and comforting, paying genuine homage to a proud history. Key features of the exercise will be increasing inflow of light, granting greater access to views of the hotel grounds, creating walk-in showers in bathrooms, as well as upgrading lighting, air conditioning and electrical features such as points for using and charging devices in all bedrooms and suites. “Work will be carried out in low-season periods between January 2020 and May 2020 and between January 2021 and May 2021, removing any need to close the hotel for this substantial elevation of physical infrastructure and visual elements, and eliminating any impact on guests staying in the hotel,” said Mr Farai. The Victoria Falls Hotel was opened in 1904, at the time of the arrival of the northbound railway development that stemmed from a vision to create a Cape-to-Cairo rail system, and just ahead of the opening of the famous road and rail bridge that crosses the gorge below the falls to link Zimbabwe with Zambia. This will be only the fifth time in its 115-year history to undergo revamp works. Upon completion, the current 61 Classic bedrooms will average 25 square metres and offer dedicated entrance foyer, king-sized bed or convertible twin beds, with lounge setting, bathroom with large walk-in shower, full wardrobe with luggage storage, generous refreshment station and luxurious mosquito net enclosure. The 25 brand new Premium bedrooms will average 43 square metres with dedicated entrance foyer, separate TV lounge, generous refreshment station, king-sized bed or convertible twin beds, with luxurious mosquito enclosure, walk-through dressing area with large wardrobe and luggage storage, bathroom featuring large walk-in shower. The 11 suites will each average 72 square metres, with dedicated entrance foyer, separate living room including TV lounge, dining area, generous minibar, separate guest WC, luxury king-sized bed or convertible twin beds, with generous mosquito enclosure and in-room lounge area, writing desk and coffee station, walk-through dressing area with large wardrobe and luggage storage, bathroom featuring large walk-in shower and free-standing bath and double vanity feature. The existing Presidential Suite features with two bedrooms with king-sized bed or convertible twin beds, large living area with separate lounges and dining room, generous bathroom with double walk-in shower. The 42 existing Stables Wing bedrooms and suites remain unchanged. 