Construction of the 30km Cape Coast road in Ghana is set to commence after the Vice President Dr Mahamudu Bawumia performed the sod cutting ceremony for the road project. The project which formed part of the Synohydro facility for the improvement of infrastructure projects in the country was in response to numerous concerns raised by residents over the years on the deplorable state of roads in the city. Among some of the communities that would benefit from the project are: Akotokyir, Kwaprow, Amamoma, Abura new community, English Arabic area, PPAG area, Amissano, Besakrom, Dankwakrom, Eyifua and Kakumdo, all in the Cape Coast North constituency. the construction works will involve drainage construction, earthworks and bituminous surfacing. The completion of the Cape Coast inner city project will reduce the distances and travel times involved in the usage of the current routes which are longer and unattractive to vehicle users. The Vice President gave assurance that the current administration under President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo will work in improving the road network in the country in line with its vision. Also Read:Ghana to begin construction of Jasikan-dodo-Pepesu road He further mentioned ongoing projects which involve the construction of landing sites in 10 fishing communities across the coastal regions. The Paramount Chief of the Oguaa Traditional Area, Osaberima Kwesi Atta II, in his remarks, expressed his appreciation to the government for initiating the project to improve the road network in the Cape Coast metropolis. The Paramount Chief also urged the contractors working on the project to consider employing residents from the area when they start recruiting. In his address, the Chinese Ambassador to Ghana, Shi Ting Wang, expressed China’s commitment to the development of the country and the African continent in general. The Minister of Roads, Kwesi Amoako Atta, in his remarks, mentioned the Assin Fosu-Twifo Praso road and the Winneba-Agona Swedru roads as some of the roads that will be reconstructed next year.