Rwanda is set to upgrade Nyamata hospital in Bugesera District after receiving US$88,891 funding from Japan. The revelation was made as the Director-General of Nyamata Hospital, Dr William Rutagengwa, signed a grant agreement with the Japanese embassy in Rwanda. While emphasizing that the hospital needed a major facelift, Dr Rutagengwa projected that by June 2020, Nyamata Hospital will have a new treatment building to facilitate healthcare operations. “This will ease and quicken our services to an increasing demographic environment of the hospital’s operating region. It will also greatly improve service delivery,” he added. Nyamata Hospital is the only polyclinic in the whole district and it therefore, receives a high number of patients beyond its capacity. It serves 448,142 residents of Bugesera district. The new building will have two operating rooms, a preparation room, a patient’s waiting room, offices and storages. The project is expected to decongest the hospital, reduce secondary infections among patients and decrease post-operative infections. Also Read:Construction of US $150m private hospital within KNH faces hurdles Yuko Hotta, Chargé d’Affaires and interim Japanese ambassador to Rwanda, who represented Japan during the signing, explained that the grant was given to the hospital to be able to cater for the needs of patients and improve the quality of service. She added that the grant is a contribution to the efforts of the Rwandan government to deliver good health services and promote the well-being of Rwandans. “Japan is very proud to be part of Rwandan efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through this project,” she said. The grant was offered under the Japanese government’s scheme “Grant Assistance for Grassroots Human Security Projects”. The scheme provides funds to developing countries without the obligation of repayment. It aims at improving basic infrastructure such as schools, hospitals, water- supply facilities and roads. Through its embassy, Japan has funded 96 projects since 2006 in Rwanda. It funds developmental projects in sectors of health, education, agriculture and ICT.