Glory Paints is a brand manufactured by Nasib Industrial Products Limited, which is an organically Kenyan business established in Nairobi, Kenya. From humble beginnings in 1992,Glory Paints has rooted itself in the Kenyan market as a significant player in the surface coatings industry. The company offers quality paints at affordable prices for all types of applications. They produce their paints in conformity with international standards so as to ensure that the customers’ needs are satisfied. Both Glory Paint’s head office and manufacturing facility are located in the heart of Industrial Area. You can find their head office at 44 Enterprise road or visit their showroom at their manufacturing facility, located at the intersection of Enterprise road and new Likoni road. Glory Paint’s manufacturing facility boasts of a well-equipped research and development lab, quality control lab and a manufacturing plant with state-of-the-art machinery, which enables the company to deliver quality paints which is in line with their core values that insists on ‘Product quality and reliability’. The company was intercepted in 1992 through the entrepreneurship of Gurmukh Singh Panesar, who previously ran a fabrication business. During this time, as a cost-cutting initiative, he developed a red oxide metal primer formulation, which he then produced to apply on his fabrication end products. This initiative marked the beginning of Glory Paints’ story, who is now a manufacturer of over 100 different products and has since established strong roots as a Kenyan manufacturer. Glory paints offers a wide variety of product range for all uses in various industries that include, but is not limited to; Decorative paints, industrial paints, automotive paints, wood & timber finishes, undercoats &primers, thinners and adhesives. Additionally, through partnership with multiple international brands, they are able to more extensively fulfil the customers’ coatings and construction needs. For interior and exterior walls, varied surfaces, and every favorite spot and cosy corner, customers use Glory Paints palette of choices to create the desired mood, textures and finishing For hundreds of Industrial manufacturers, Glory Paints provides robust and lasting solutions. Glory Paints offers coatings that preserve the durability and enhance performance of industrial products by protecting them from corrosion, chemical attacks, abrasion, water penetration and effects of mild heat Glory Paints presents a total service solution for automotive paint users from body fillers and primers, to premium automotive finishes Glory Paints provides quality wood finishes that protect wooden surfaces from drying, cracking and swelling. At the same time, Glory Wood and Timber Finishes enhance the appearance of wooden surfaces giving them a professional look Glory Paints provides a range of undercoats for all purposes that provide excellent adhesion on properly prepared and primed surfaces Glory Paints offers thinners for their wide range of solvent based paints to achieve their recommended application viscosity. The thinners are also effective as a clean-up solvent for brushes, rollers and spray equipment Adhesives Whether you need to manage multi-material assembly, add structural strength or bond materials that don’t respond to traditional fastener, their range of adhesives can help Skim Coat Lastly, Glory Paint’s Glomix Skim coat provides a superb finish and a high-quality surface for your walls and ceilings Moreover, Glory Paints has a growing network of Colour Studio dealers who possess their computerized tinting machines. These tinting machines provide our customers over 1000 shades of paint to choose from that they can obtain in a matter of minutes