The Federal Government of Nigeria, through the Rural Electrification Agency, has inaugurated a 100KW solar power mini-grid power plant in Akpabom Community in Onna Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. The project, which is the third to be inaugurated under the Rural Electrification Fund, will provide clean, safe, affordable and reliable electricity for the community members. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, REA, Mrs Damilola Ogunbiyi, reiterated the Federal Government’s commitment to meeting its developmental goals by providing electricity access for all. “As an agency, we are responsible for powering unserved and underserved communities; therefore, it is fulfilling every time homes, businesses, schools and medical centres are connected to sustainable solar power,” said the REA CEO. Mrs. Damilola further explained that through the project, rural communities will be transformed with clean energy and lots of job opportunities created during construction. Micro and small businesses are projected to scale to larger heights thanks to reliable electricity. Also Read:40MW solar power plant to be built in Tshopo, DRC The Chief Executive Officer, GVE Projects Limited, Ifeanyi Orajaka, said the installed mini-grid, comprising a total of 306 solar panels and a distribution network cable of 5.5km; and would adequately energise the community. He said 58 jobs were created as a result of local labour. The REA is the implementing agency of the Federal Government tasked with the electrification of unserved and underserved communities. The agency provides equitable access to electricity across Nigeria to maximise the economic, social and environmental benefits of rural electrification grants, to promote off-grid electrification, and to stimulate innovative approaches to rural electrification. A statement from the electrification firm indicated that the first batch of the Rural Electrification Fund will energise 12 communities with solar mini grids and deploy 19,000 Solar Home Systems.