Uganda is set to complete the construction of road interchanges at Sentema and Lubigi on Kampala Northern bypass, and open them to the public by next month. This was publicized by the Uganda National Roads Authority (Unra) media manager, Mr. Allan Ssempebwa Kyobe. He noted that both interchanges would ease traffic flow in the city. “The construction service provider has guaranteed us that works on both interchanges will be done before the year-end and we have faith that the perennial traffic snarl-up around these spots will come to an end,” he said. The two interchanges are a part of the ongoing expansion of the Kampala Northern Bypass. The project is being executed by Monta-engil, a Portuguese construction company and it is financed by the government of Uganda in conjunction with the European Union (EU) through a loan from the European Investment Bank. Also Read: Uganda to launch three new footbridges on Kampala Northern Bypass This project aims to improve urban mobility in and around Kampala through relieving congestion on the vital Northern Corridor Route, reducing travel time and vehicle operating costs, and improving road safety. To achieve these objectives, the project entails the construction of the above-mentioned interchanges in addition to 4 others at Hoima, Gayaza, Bukoto – Kyebando, Ntinda and Naalya roads, all of which are intended to separate the express traffic along the Northern Bypass from the adjoining traffic from the connecting roads. The project also involves building an additional carriageway, approximately 17.5km long, to complete the dualization of the Kampala Northern Bypass to a 4-lane dual carriageway road. Construction of 3 new footbridges at Kyebando, Ntinda, and Naalya, to allow safe crossing of pedestrians across the road is also almost complete. The footbridges will also be opened to the public any time soon. Above all, UNRA is also improving road safety by setting up segregated facilities for cyclists and pedestrians, improving lighting systems, installing road-studs, improving grade crossings at signalized junctions, and building full-length central reserve safety barriers.