VOLKSLiFT EAST AFRICA LIMITED, a Real Estate Excellence Awards winner, provides the best elevators, escalators and moving walkways in Kenya and the larger East Africa by using the latest German technologies. They enable the smooth flow of urban traffic in buildings and organizations through the provision of VOLKSLiFT innovative solutions. VOLKSLiFT combines the advantages of a long history of outstanding engineering skills, which is based on advanced industrial technology, with the rapid growth and attractive surrounding of the elevator industry in East Africa. VOLKSLiFT provide exceptional customer experiences. We commission the installation of safe, reliable convenient elevators and offer complete vertical mobility solutions to homeowners, architects, builders and developers over the full life cycle of their buildings. Passenger elevators are categorized into machine room elevators and machine room less (MRL) elevators.  The machine room elevators provide more free architectural design and save up on space through the adoption of the compact control cabinet and the customized permanent magnet synchronous traction machine that saves the space of the hoist-way and   improves the utilization construction space. Machine room-less elevators remove the restrictions in construction, construction costs, architectural design style and utilization of space as the control cabinet is located in the elevator shaft. These elevators are superior because they’re generous by providing higher cabin and wider doors, elegant with a fine choice of interior designs, provide comfort due to advanced layout and components. 3. Dumbwaiter elevators Dumbwaiter elevators provide rapid, convenient and economic vertical transport. They are widely used in restaurants, libraries, office buildings, banks, dining halls and in other places. They create unique perspectives with a smooth line design that unfolds its beauty during the drive in the elevator. Bed elevators meet highest requirements of modern hospitals and care institutions. They make use of intelligent technology by using group control dispatching system and make interpretation of the perfect realm with antimagnetic protection. Freight elevators are reliable and robust working equipment that have become an ideal choice for factories, warehouses, malls, real estate centers and other places with its high sense of powerful carrying capacity. Car elevators have a sufficiently big cabin and wide door opening that makes loading and unloading easier for the driver. Services provided