The forklift won the award thanks to the inclusion of advanced features. Ecomondo focuses on the sustainability of technological and industrial equipment. AUSA’s new all-terrain C251H forklift won the award for Technological Innovation at the 23rd edition of the Ecomondo trade show held in Rimini, Italy. Ecomondo is an annual trade fair that is focused on the sustainability of technological and industrial equipment and this year it was attended by AUSA together with our dealer Officine B. AUSA won this award thanks to the inclusion of advanced features with which they have
revolutionised the all-terrain forklift market. These include the Ecomode system, which
automatically controls the engine’s RPM to offer the greatest power with the lowest
consumption and the lowest emissions, the Hill Holder, which keeps the vehicle completely
stationary on any slope when you take your foot off the accelerator, the electronically-control hydrostatic all-wheel drive, the low-emission Stage V engine and the self-diagnostics system integrated through the digital screen, in addition to remote control from a mobile telephone or computer. This new 4×4 forklift is fully equipped and features the latest technology, including all of the fuel and CO2 emission reduction systems. With this complete redesign of the machine it has also managed to increase operator visibility by 30%, which proportionally increases the safety of the operator and their surroundings. Comfort has also been improved thanks to wider cabs, a steering wheel with adjustable height and reach and a reduction in noise emissions of up to 78 dB with the cab closed. There are also various equipment options such as a range of masts with a maximum lift of up to 5,450 mm, heating and air conditioning and three different cab finishes. AUSA is the global manufacturer of compact industrial vehicles for moving materials and road maintenance. The are present in 90 countries, across 5 continents, with 500 dealers with a production capacity of more than 10,000 vehicles per year.