Terrafussion International Inc and Terraroads International Inc are internationally recognized companies, jointly owned and managed by the same team of highly knowledgeable and highly skilled professionals and experts in their field, with aim of offering innovative, environmentally safe, sustainable soil stabilization products: ECOROADS® and ECOBRICX® and equipment solutions – Teraroads Equipment for road construction, road maintenance and repair, infrastructural and housing projects, soil stabilization, erosion and dust prevention, that help minimize the total project cost, lessen the carbon footprint, and reduce the use of harsh toxic chemicals. Their latest products ECOROADS® and ECOBRICX® is non-caustic, non-corrosive, non-combustible and biodegradable innovative biomass-based soil stabilization, road construction and brick producing products that has a hardening impact on local soils and converts them into a hard and stable road base or bricks, increase the strength, density and durability of roads and road bases efficiently and inexpensively. ECOROADS® and ECOBRICX® is easy to apply, for application can be mixed with regular water and does not require any special equipment or special methods of application. Teraroads Equipment is state of the art attachments which is ideal on the job-sites from small rural roads to highways, from reclamation of agricultural land to big city infrastructure projects, from car parks to airport projects, from forest trails to maintenance of mining areas. Their attachments designed with ability to work together with all existing in a market types of tractors, and required no special training to operate. Their equipment’s high-quality components ensure minimal maintenance that allows continues work throughout the day, every day, all year round. Their state-of-the-art solutions for roads, housing, infrastructural or general construction projects, has several objectives, some of which are: Combination of products and their equipment is truly a form of empowerment; by providing new technology to meet today’s growing demand for safe, sustainable roads, facilitating free market movement and growing needs for safe transport they can create jobs for local labor, help to build infrastructure by whilst instilling a strong sense of national pride in local communities. The company welcomes the opportunity to expand their business in African countries. They have distributors in Kenya, Nigeria, Botswana, and Zimbabwe who working tirelessly toward the implementation of our latest technologies to deliver ground-breaking solutions while helping local governments and local communities complete their projects quickly, safely and with no unnecessary expenses. By combining their environmentally safe and innovative soil stabilization products with non-expensive cutting-edge equipment, you will be assured to achieve cost-effective sustainable construction, maintenance and repair of roads and other infrastructure projects. The Terrafussion International Inc and Terraroads International Inc team is committed to its mission to provide environmentally safe developments and improvements of infrastructures and improving the quality of people’s lives around the world.