A crane usually utilizes cable and pulley systems to create a mechanical benefit to lift heavy loads. In fact, they are machines that perform an extremely important part in the construction industry as they have the power to move materials of different weights. Cranes have become the most important mechanism on construction sites The following are the top crane companies in the United States of America: Lampson International has been a world leader in the Heavy Lift and Transport industry for over 65 years. Initially started as a small drayage company, they have quickly grown into one of the most innovative and respected providers of equipment and full-service rigging services in the United States and abroad. Maxim Crane Works specializes in the rental and sales of lift equipment including hydraulic truck cranes, rough terrain cranes, crawler cranes, tower cranes, conventional truck cranes and boom trucks. With their expansive resources, each branch has the capability to provide management, rigging, engineering, transportation and outsourcing; making Maxim Crane Works’ services the most comprehensive in the industry. Also Read: Top Construction equipment manufacturers in the United States What started in 1964 with a single crane, and an unwavering commitment to quality and service by three brothers; has grown to become the largest privately held crane rental and sales operation in North America. Essex Crane Rental Corp a specialist in crane rental, used crane sales and crane service and has grown steadily over 40 years into one of the world’s largest provider of lattice-boom crawler cranes and tower, max-er and ringer attachments. With an inventory of over 350 cranes and attachments in its fleet, Essex has the heavy lifting equipment you need for construction projects related to power generation, petro-chemical, refineries, water treatment & purification, bridges, highways, hospitals, shipbuilding, and commercial construction. Being family-owned and operating since 1968 is just one of the things that sets Deep South Crane & Rigging apart from the majority of its competitors. They have the best tools and talent to serve their customers’ needs including a comprehensive fleet of cranes, transporters, and specialty equipment capable of completing any size project. They can supply bare crane rentals or complete turnkey solutions that includes transportation/delivery, haul in and set-in-place using our cranes. In addition, because they build their own cranes, they have a unique ability to create custom solutions and fabricate them onsite offering customers a much quicker solution to costly down-time. With over 65 years of providing reliable, quality, and safe services to the commercial and industrial markets, Buckner has earned their place as a nationally recognized leader in the steel/precast erection industry and HeavyLift Crane services. Their goal is to create long term relationships based upon confidence, trust and integrity. Terex Cranes offers a wide range of mobile cranes, lattice boom cranes and tower cranes. It is the only global supplier with such a wide range of products, manufactured in 6 plants around the world.The Company reports in two business segments: Aerial Work Platforms and Materials Processing. Major Terex brands include Terex, Genie, Powerscreen and Demag.