Sewerage cleaning operations can become expensive, time consuming and labour intensive for operators if they need to use multiple vehicles for sucking and jetting. On the back of its immense experience building custom, specialist high-pressure jetting equipment in South Africa, Werner South Africa Pumps & Equipment (Pty) Ltd is introducing the first bakkie-mounted vehicle in South Africa that has the combined ability to perform suction and jetting. Werner Pumps has become an agent in South Africa for French company Baroclean and is making Baroclean Rapid Response Vehicle available to the local market. The Rapid Response Vehicle is an excellent option for applications where bigger sewerage-cleaning trucks cannot fit easily, such as shopping centres or office park basements. Sebastian Werner, Managing Director at Werner Pumps says “We are thrilled to be introducing this vehicle to the local market and believe it is an excellent solution for our customers who service industrial and urban environments.” The Rapid Response Vehicle is mounted on a local Toyota chassis and has a high-pressure pump, vacuum pump suction and aluminium tank with two compartments; a 800l sludge tank and a 400l water tank. It also has a payload of over 700kg. The range of features in the unit provide high performance solutions in a compact package. Clients in the plumbing and construction industries will find the Rapid Response Vehicle particularly useful because of its agility and versatility. It can be driven into small, challenging locations and perform multiple maintenance and cleaning functions where other sanitation equipment cannot. The hydro-cleansing combined vehicle’s high-pressure pump has three solid ceramic pistons that provide pressure of 150 to 320 bar. The pumps and vacuum draw their power from the base vehicle’s engine, via a full-power transfer gearbox. The suction and jetting system is controlled through a panel at the rear of the vehicle. The control panel is located in a waterproof box and the system comes with an emergency stop button. The Rapid Response Vehicle costs vary, depending on the chosen finishing features, and has a delivery lead time of six months from order. Baroclean is a French sanitation equipment company that has over 35 years’ experience in producing jetting units and combination tankers for the maintenance of sewer networks and septic tanks. Baroclean is a specialist in creating compact, agile equipment for the sanitation industry. It uses innovative and light materials to create vehicles that are economical, well-suited for quick interventions, and able to fit into tight spaces. Werner Pumps will be exhibiting its specialist high-pressure jetting equipment at IFAT Africa trade fair for water, sewage, refuse and recycling from 9 to 11 July at Gallagher Convention Centre. Visit them in the outdoor area exiting Hall 5. Caption: Photos One and Two: Rapid Response Vehicle Operating in Barcelona. For over 30 years, Werner South Africa Pumps & Equipment (Pty) Ltd. has been designing, manufacturing, supplying and maintaining specialist high-pressure jetting equipment. The company has built a reputation as a local industry leader through its focus on delivering high-quality, low-maintenance, 100% South African manufactured products that last, all while considering clients’ budgets. Aside from its in-house manufacturing capabilities, Werner Pumps specializes in the supply and maintenance of high-pressure jetting equipment, German high-pressure pumps, high-pressure sewer cleaning hoses, Swiss-engineered Nozzles by ENZ, and high-pressure guns, lances and cleaning equipment. Complete recycling units are also available on import from Werner Pumps supplier, Dietmar Kaiser.