With an integrated touch screen that allows users to customize their shower temperature, length and experience. With the DTV+, manual control is a thing of the past. The Ceric bath, with its clean Kohler Co.’s lineup of innovative newcomers will be launching at Design Joburg featuring Rooms on View, here’s what’s in store for visitors. For KOHLER, global leaders in bathroom and kitchen manufacture, innovation and excellence are at the heart of all that the brand creates. Their presence at Design Joburg, was multi-faceted, including the KOHLER Theatre, a base for talks by industry leaders, and their stand. The latter is set to be a slick and contemporary platform, aimed at showcasing the very latest that the brand has to offer. Hinging on the notion of experiential luxury, KOHLER will be releasing its brand-new additions to the line as well as some much-loved recent releases, all boasting intuitive design and cutting-edge technology. First and foremost, the new Verdera smart mirror is an intelligent offering with lighting and Amazon Alexa built in. Bathroom prep has never been as effortless as this groundbreaking mirror can provide you with the time, a weather update, your favourite music and it can adjust the amount of light emitted all on voice command. It can also communicate with other KOHLER Konnect products such as the DTV+ shower, enabling you to start running your shower to preset preferences without touching anything. Verdera will be released in retail market in the coming months. The DTV+ shower is the lined minimalism and gentle curvature, will be making an appearance too. Cast in one solid piece from Lithocast®, a gloss cast resin, the bath is lightweight and cleans with ease. Streamlined and sleek, the new Eir toilet is another revolutionary new release from KOHLER and will undoubtedly impress visitors. This intelligent toilet boasts automatic opening, flushing and closing, night light mode, seat warming, bowl sanitizing and variable bidet options that use purified water. With its asymmetric, organic form and etched detailing in honed marble, the new Kensho Trough Vessel is a Japanese and Italian inspired basin featuring sashiko kimono motifs. This basin will be featured alongside the Kensho Round Vessel (also a new release), which boasts the same artistic features but in pared back rounded form. Both of these basins will be paired with KOHLER’s Components taps, which offer consumers the freedom of individuality with different designs that can be combined to suit individual tastes. The new brushed bronze composed mixer will also feature on the stand, speaking to devotees of minimalism with its extra tall tower faucet and stripped back form. With more than a century in the seat, KOHLER has become an industry leader. Followed by architects, designers and building industry experts, the brand will not disappoint visitors to Design Joburg. www.designjoburg.com and www.africa.kohler.com