Generators can keep you running when your power lines are down. By having a backup generator before a storm, you do not have to worry about calling your electric company and trying to fight the masses to get the company’s attention to fix your outage. The following are the top generator suppliers in Kenya; Ryce East Africa Ltd is a pioneer member of the Sameer Group. RYCE is proud to be the local partner for global brands such as KOHLER SDMO and HERO. The company’s task is to Supply, installs and commissions KOHLER-SDMO Power Generator Sets from 1 KVA to 4200 KVA (LT & HT) REAL is the one stop shop for total engineered solutions that include Supply, design, project management, installation, commissioning and full after sales service. RYCE has a fully fledged branch in Mombasa, and has partnered with key dealers across the country to provide essential after sales service in all regions of Kenya. As an ISO 9001:2008 certified company, we assure high quality and traceability in our business operations. Ryce East Africa is dedicated to being the reliable one in provision of quality automobile, alternative power, at comprehensive and affordable rates in a personalized and efficient manner whilst exceeding all stakeholders’ expectations Williamson Power is a leading Kenyan power generator solutions company which specializes in sales and service of diesel/petrol generating sets. With 18 years of experience in the Kenyan generator industry, the company has built a reputation for best-in-class competence, responsiveness and excellent customer relations. The company is based in Nairobi and has a highly qualified service team that can be dispatched anywhere within the country-round the clock. Simba corp pwer systems divison (PSD) represents ASKA power  generators in kenya providing generators sets ranging from 3.5 KVA up to 2500 KVA (preorders above 550KVA). AKSA Gensets are powered by Cummins/Perkins and Doosan Engines with Stanford Alteators. The generators sets are available in the various products range categories and are flexible with no compromise to the Gensets quality. AKSA power generation Kenya has just the right Gensets for small busineses, medium sized business and large businesses. The variety for each of the customers segments is what makes the company better than the other generators in the market. Energy Solutions (Private) Limited (ESL) is primarily a Service Company in Power Generation business. It has been created with a mission to help customers select and buy, install and commission, operate and maintain power generation equipment from 1kVA to 2500 kVA with focus on continuously developing and retaining fleet customers and high horsepower accounts. The Company sincerely strives to “do more than what is said and deliver more than what is promised”. Energy Solutions (Private) Limited (ESL) is a Company run and managed by professionals having a cumulative experience of over 250 years in power generation. Today it has become the trusted source of complete range of diesel and lean burn gas generators using original Cummins engines from UK. Also read:Top generator companies in South Africa Car & General is a leading supplier of generators, motorbikes, construction equipment and a wide range of power generation, automotive and engineering products in East Africa for 75 years. Car & General is headquartered in Nairobi with branches in Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru, Kitengela and Eldoret. It has subsidiaries in Uganda (Kampala) with a branch in Ndeeba, Mbarara, Tanzania (Dar-es-Salaam) with branches in Arusha, Mwanza and Zanzibar and Rwanda in Kigali. Famiar Generating Systems Limited (FGS) was founded in 1994 and prides itself as one of the leaders in the power generation industry in Kenya and within the East and Central African Region. Famiar Generating Systems Limited is a company which was established with a core focus on providing customized integrated power products and services with well established infrastructure, equipment and manpower to support and provide power generation solutions for various industries. The company provides latest technology equipment allowing us to give our customer the best product and the best service possible. The company partners with world renowned companies to offer a one stop shop power solution for our clients. Their products range from Generators to Intelligent power solutions including UPS’s, Power stabilizers and Inverters. As a leading power-systems supplier, Mantrac Power Systems kenya is committed to providing their customers with electric power solutions to operate your business at maximum efficiency. The company offers Olympian generators from 10 kVA to 220 kVA and Caterpillar generators from 250 kVA to 7000 kVA, providing both primary and standby power. The generators can be used to power offshore oil rigs, mines in remote areas, communities in areas far from utility power grids, hospitals, schools, factories, airports and office buildings. Our engines are also designed to power trucks, ships and boats, agricultural equipment, construction and mining machines, and more. Unlike most suppliers of engines and generator sets, Mantrac Power Systems Kenya provides turnkey service covering all operational stages, from system design, testing and installation to commissioning, training and long-term maintenance and repair. Generators are available with or without sound-proof enclosures, fixed or mobile. Mantrac Power Systems Kenya has local branches in Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa.