Building Energy SpA, a multinational Italian company operating as a Global Integrated IPP (Independent Power Producer) in the renewable energy sector, will participate as sponsor to the 21st annual Africa Energy Forum (AEF), the international investment meeting for Africa’s power energy, infrastructure and industrial sectors, taking place in Lisbon, from 11th to 14th June 2019. During the event, Building Energy will take part in two panels session “Claiming a larger share of the energy mix and incorporating wind projects in to the bigger picture” and “The rise of mega projects and how will accelerated solar development impact the energy mix?” and will be present with its own stand. With an integrated business model, Building Energy covers a fully green energy value chain, from the engineering and development to the actual investment and construction of the generation assets. Thanks to this well-established model, the company has a particularly strong presence in Africa and Middle East with a gross capacity of 328 MW of plants – in operation, under construction or under development – divided into 3 different technologies, 171 MW from Solar plants, 152 MW from Wind and 5 MW from Hydro. Building Energy is also working on a pipeline of 1.8 GW of projects in countries such as, Botswana, Mali, Zambia, Namibia, Swaziland, Malawi and Tunisia. Among its virtuous projects, in April 2018 Building Energy signed a Power Purchase Agreement with the South African utility Eskom Holdings SOC and an Implementation Agreement with the South African State for the construction, ownership and operation of a 147 MW wind plant in Roggeveld, in the Laingsburg area between the Northern and Western Cape Provinces, which will generate approximately 613 GWh per year. An agreement for a 4.7 MW small-hydro project in Kruisvallei, in the Free State Province, was also signed with Eskom and the South African State in April 2018, which has started construction in the beginning of 2019 with Commercial Operation Date scheduled in September 2020. The Tororo Solar North Power Plant, which reached commercial operation in Q3 2017, is the first photovoltaic system developed, built, owned and operated by Building Energy in Uganda. Previously, Building Energy had already been awarded an 81 MW solar plant in Kathu, in the first Round of the REIPPP Programme, which has been operating since August 2014 and is one of the largest solar PV plants on the continent. Furthermore, in April 2019 the multinational has been appointed preferred bidder in the GET FiT tender launched by the Government of the Republic of Zambia and KfW to facilitate private sector investment in the Country, for two solar projects. Building Energy will develop the two 30 MW solar projects in Bulemu, located in Kabwe District (Central Province) which, once completed, will generate 50 GWh each per year. “We are pleased to sponsor the 21st annual Africa Energy Forum, one of the main events that attracts over 2,000 senior-level representatives of the African energy market every year, such as governments, policymakers, regulators, power developers and utilities,”  said Matteo Brambilla,Managing Director Africa and Middle East “This annual meeting gives us the chance to identify new opportunities for our business, strengthen or form new partnerships and keep growing,” He added.