Cummins authorized distributor SETI Jordan Ltd. has provided a complete power solution, from project design to installation of the genset and switchgear, for Zain’s headquarters in Amman. This included special design and consultation for the generator foundation base. Zain’s headquarters consists of three buildings, one of which houses the main data centre and core equipment. It reconfigured the existing power sources for the two-storey building by adding a new utility path and transformer, which required a new back-up genset for the utility. A Cummins C1675D5 genset, installed inside a 40′ sound-attenuated PowerBox container, provides 1 500 kVA of reliable back-up power for the utility in the second path of electricity. Zain Jordan has been a Cummins’ customer since 2004, with around 60 installed gensets to date. Cummins is also the power provider at hundreds of other Zain installations in the region, including mobile base stations and the Kuwait headquarters. Cummins’ ability to meet unique requirements of the project, such as low noise and vibration levels with the PowerBox, along with SETI Ltd. Jordan’s capabilities in delivering the complete turnkey solution of supply, installation, testing and commissioning, in addition to aftersales and service capabilities, are key features of the partnership with Zain. Zain Jordan introduced mobile phone services into the country in 1995. Part of the Zain Group, it has led the telecom sector by continuing to invest in new technologies and partnerships. With over 8 000 cell sites, Zain Jordan covers the entire Kingdom. Over the years, the communication landscape in Jordan has evolved through many other firsts from Zain: it was the first Middle Eastern operator to launch MMS, mobile data services and infotainment solutions, and the first to introduce WAP connectivity, 4G/LTE and mobile banking in Jordan. Cummins Inc., a global technology leader, is a corporation of complementary business segments that designs, manufactures, distributes and services a broad portfolio of power solutions. The company’s products range from diesel and natural gas engines to hybrid and electric platforms, as well as related technologies, including transmissions, battery systems, fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions, and power
generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana (U.S.), since its founding in 1919, Cummins employs approximately 62,600 people committed to powering a more prosperous world through three global corporate responsibility priorities critical to healthy communities: education, environment and equality of opportunity. Cummins serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of approximately 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations, and over 7,600 dealer locations. In 2018, the company earned about US $2.1bn on sales of US $23.8bn.