Kenya is set to move ahead with plans to construct a coal -fired power plant on its mainland opposite the tourist island of Lamu despite concerns raised about the project’s viability. The construction of the plant, by Amu Power, a consortium comprising Kenya’s Gulf Energy and Centum Investment and a group of Chinese companies, after winning the government contract, was to commence in 2015 but has repeatedly been halted due to opposition by environmentalists. Also Read:Tanzania’s Mbeya coal to power project receives greenlight The plan which is located near Lamu island, a famous ancient Swahili settlement and UNESCO World heritage site and a top tourist destination. Environmentalists say the plant will pollute the air, destroying mangroves and breeding grounds for five endangered species of marine turtles, fish and other marine life. The US $2bn 1000MW coal fired plant, scheduled to enter commercial service in 2024, would cost consumers more than US $9bn and at the same time lead to excess generating capacity in Kenya hence sharply increasing electricity rates for consumers. According to a report dubbed ‘The Proposed Lamu Coal Plant: The Wrong Choice for Kenya’, reveals that even if the plant never generates any power Kenya will still have to pay for it. “The true costs of Lamu’s electricity during the years 2024 through 2037 could average as high as US $22 to US $75 cents per KWh — three to 10 times the company’s 2014 projection,” the study noted. The study said the plant’s proponents had under priced coal imports and rising operational and maintenance costs However, the plant’s backers say it would help tackle Kenya’s frequent blackouts by increasing generation capacity by nearly a third and generating power that would cost about half what consumers currently pay. Amu Power says electricity from the plant will cost US $7.2 cents per KWh. In 2018, a Kenyan court suspended the project, sending the dispute back to an environmental tribunal. It is expected to issue a decision later this month on whether the project can go ahead.  