The African continent has in the recent past awakened and as the rest of the world, it is now gradually switching over to the “Go Green” revolution with the increasing awareness about environmental pollution and degradation of natural resources. The continent is now turning from hydroelectric, geothermal, coal and other hazardous sources to more environment-friendly, cheap and feasible option i.e. solar power. This sudden increase in the popularity of solar products in Africa has given solar product manufacturers, distributors and installers around the world numerous growth opportunities in terms of sales and innovations in the recent past. Below is a list of top solar companies from around the world that have tapped into the African market and which are committed to enable the Sub Saharan Africa realize her full power potential: DuSol Industries is a PV module manufacturing company based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The company also offers complete integrated solutions right from planning and conceptualization to final execution and commissioning of systems. With their highly automated factory, Dusol delivers products of equal quality and excellence workmanship in all their small modules as it is in large power plants modules. The company operates in the African continent through their clients in Sub Saharan Africa as well as East and West Africa.  Very soon through their partners, DUSOL shall have a fully represented office in Uganda. Due to the increasing need for smaller modules in Africa, this segment is served by inferior products made from substandard raw materials and workmanship all of which interfere with the capacity of the modules. Dusol strives to cub the trend by offering the highest quality products for such small requirements. “Solar panels are supposed to last for 25 years from the day of commissioning, not only mechanically but also in terms of power production capacity. The technology of solar has evolved and it is important to invest in the latest technology and use products that are from reliable sources.” says Amin Lakhani from DuSol Industries. Based in China, Ningbo Cinco Solar Co. Ltd provides the more close to local needs and most cost-effective high-quality photovoltaic power generation products and solutions to the world. The company adheres to the cause of innovation and development to create quality and cheap new energy products for human use. It is committed to build a greener, more environmentally friendly and harmonious future. CINCO SOLAR has a special connection with the African continent where it has been delivering their solar power solutions to governments and private customers in the continents different countries through their distributors and local partners in South Africa, Zimbabwe, Nigeria, Madagascar and many more others for more than 10 years. Simon Zhan from CINCO SOLAR China advises solar customers to choose high-efficiency solar energy as much as possible. “High-efficiency solar panels means more technological content.” Tanfon Energy Co., Ltd. is based in China and it has over 12 years’ experience in the solar industry. The company focuses on inverter products development, solar power system design, production, sale service, after-sale site service, site survey, design, production, installation and maintenance of one-stop service. It has been on service for over a 120 countries in the world including East Africa’s Kenya and Tanzania republics where it has helped save up to 90% of electricity bill. Tanfon Solar promises quality products with a certain warranty and the new part would be shipped freely on time for service during the warranty. Vicky, Tanfons Sales engineer says that it is important to consider your expectations and power needs before or when purchasing a solar system. “Calculate your home electricity consumption to choose the best system to serve your purpose, go for quality products and thou shall not be enticed by low prices.” Located in Haining City in Zhejiang Province of China, Sunfull Solar is a hi-tech enterprise which is specialized in the research and manufacture of solar vacuum tubes, solar water heaters and solar collectors by the use of advanced technology and comprehensive facilities. The company has been devoted in assisting the world to collect and convert energy from the Sun into hot water. It has been actively exporting their products to the African countries including but not limited to the following countries; Burkina Faso, Mauritius, Somalia and South Africa. The Sales Manager at Sunfull Solar, Amy says the most valuable advice is: “Although most of solar water heaters look similar to each other, the manufacturing details will be different inside. And our factory can provide the most reliable quality to our customers, which can avoid many after-sale troubles for you for 100% sure.” Elsol is a solar company based in Israel that specializes in designing, producing, marketing, installing and servicing solar hot water systems, solar thermal systems, cogeneration and energy saving products. The company has long experience in solar thermal field of producing hot water to large systems that can be applied in hotels, hospitals and the industry as well as vast knowledge in supplying economical and individual systems of high quality in reasonable prices without compromising the quality of their products. Elsol solar systems can be found all over the world including South Africa, Kenya, Rwanda, Ghana and Zambia in Africa. Eli Shilton, the Elsol’s Managing Director says, “I would advise customers to look into the experience and knowhow of their supplier and more importantly to look at their record in service.” (Greenway Solar Energy Co., LTD) is the one stop supplier for solar irrigation and solar off grid home systems located in Zhejiang china. Yygreenway is the only company that can provide water irrigation (whole solar water pump system) from china. Their main products are Solar Dc brush submersible pump, Solar Dc brushless submersible pump, AC 220V / 380V submersible pump, AC/DC solar water pump inverter, Solar home system, Mono and Poly new and china top brands Stock solar panels. The solar pumps range from 100watt to 110 kW and they come at economical price and a long life span. These company has the capacity to deliver their products to customers around the world. In the last four years, Yygreenway has installed more than 400,000 solar water pump systems in Middle East, Africa and East Asia. “Normally people have problems with solar pumps, pump inverters, or they do not know how to match the complete system, and that’s where our whole system products come in, saving customers the headache. It is a onetime expenditure that sets you free from maintenance, on grid bills and oil costs giving you the freedom to enjoy free, green and new energy.” Says Mr. Noori the sales director in Yiwu Greenway Co Ltd.