Phase two of the Nairobi Regeneration Programme is set to commence in July at a cost of US $15m. This is according to Nairobi County Governor Mike Sonko. The rehabilitation programme is a collaboration between the county government and the national government and focuses on infrastructure and transport, housing and settlement, energy, water resources, environment and solid waste, among others. Also Read:Kenya to conduct feasibility studies on Muthaiga-Kiambu-Ndumberi road The governor affirmed that the government will partner with Kenya Urban Roads Authority (KURA) and Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA) to ensure all roads are done to meet standards required. A viaduct will be built to link the Central Business District and Mombasa Road through Enterprise Road. The Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan 2030 identified the road as the missing link and a priority project. The project will be financed by Japan International Co-operation Agency (JICA) and implemented by KURA. Construction work on the roads started in September last year and they have already done over half of the 80.3 kilometres that the project was to cover in only three months. The project was divided into three with each given separate one year contracts in July 27, 2018. The contract for Lot 1, covering 32km of road network, was awarded to Stecol Corporation at US $95m and the progress is at 45%. The first phase of the construction work covered repair on roads in the city’s populous Eastlands estates. The roads covered by the project include Komarock Road, Harambee Estate Sacco roads, Construction of Eastern Bypass — Kayole Spin Road, Donholm Phase V and VIII roads, Eldoret Road and Nyasa Road. The project contract for the second phase which covers 25.5 Km, was awarded to to China Roads and Bridges Corporation while China Wu Yi won the contract for lot 3, covering 22.8 Km of road network. Two months ago, KURA gave Wakulima Market traders up to December to relocate for the construction to start. But the more than 2,000 traders are not keen to relocate to the new Wakulima Market on Kangundo Road. 