Global design and BIM software provider Vectorworks, Inc. will solidify its place at the forefront of the entertainment industry with the pending acquisition of connectCAD, a systems design solution geared for the audiovisual (AV) industry. Since 2009, connectCAD has been offered as a plug-in for Vectorworks software, offering the ability for designing broadcast, AV, lighting and IT networks or any other type of connected system. connectCAD ensures that as-built drawings and cable lists exactly match the completed cabling architecture, avoiding expensive or even impossible reworking with other methods. connectCAD is used worldwide to design and coordinate complex AV installations such as exhibitions, casinos, conferences, churches, staging events and theme parks, as well as broadcast systems, IT and telecom infrastructure. Additionally, anyone involved in design, installation and connection of electrical and electronic systems can benefit from the powerful combination of connectCAD and Vectorworks. “connectCAD has been a great partner product for Vectorworks over the years and has gradually built a product for Vectorworks that creates a powerful, yet intuitive interface for generating audiovisual system designs and reports,” said Vectorworks CEO Dr. Biplab Sarkar. “In response to the growing audio needs for our customers, connectCAD was an obvious choice because it’s a high-quality product that naturally extends our AV capabilities for our users.” As part of the pending acquisition, connectCAD Founder, Managing Director and Programmer for the tools, Conrad Preen will be committing to a minimum of two years with Vectorworks to continue the development of connectCAD. “Part of the Vectorworks family, connectCAD is poised to enter a new era and will be able to realize its true potential,” said Preen. “We’re looking forward to introducing many new features in the coming years with the expertise of Vectorworks engineers fine-tuning our existing features. As in human enterprise, teamwork is the key to great results, and I can think of no better team than Vectorworks.” Part of the acquisition, the first priority will be to convert all Vectorscript tools and commands to C++ using Vectorworks SDK, thus enhancing the performance of the connectCAD plug-in. Once completed, connectCAD will be offered as an add-on module for Vectorworks Spotlight or Designer in English and German. Completion of the first phase will be during the Vectorworks 2020 version cycle. Vectorworks, Inc. is a global design and BIM software solutions provider serving over 675,000 professionals in the architecture, landscape and entertainment industries. Since 1985, we’ve been committed to helping designers capture inspiration, nurture innovation, communicate effectively and bring their visions to life. With our cross-platform software, designers can build data-rich, visual models without sacrificing the design process, while collaborating efficiently throughout the project life-cycle. Headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with offices in Atlanta, Georgia, Newbury and London, England and Vancouver, Canada, Vectorworks is a part of the Nemetschek Group. Learn how we empower designers to create experiences that transform the world at vectorworks.net.