The world of cranes is vast and varied. There are a number of different types of cranes used within the construction industry, all with seemingly endless models, functions and capabilities. Not only are cranes and integral part of most construction projects lifting and hoisting material by the ton, they are also a complicated piece of machinery to man, and can be dangerous due to their sheer size and power. Here are some of the top companies that supply cranes in South Africa; ZLT Tower cranes are the exclusive agent and distributor of precision heavy lifting machinery manufacturer Raimondi Cranes. Raimondi Cranes, established in 1863, is one of Italy’s homegrown manufacturing success stories. Raimondi currently services the global tower and luffing crane machinery segment and has sold more than 16,000 units worldwide. ZLT Tower Cranes supplies lifting solutions from 4 to 16 tons to South Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa. The company supplies, service and support the full range of flat top, hammer head and luffing tower cranes as wells as crane accessories. Liebherr-Africa (Pty) Ltd was founded in 1958 in the South African city of Springs as one of the first Liebherr companies outside of Germany. In the 1960s the new location had the purpose of bridging the very expensive transport routes from Europe to Africa. In addition to South Africa itself, the neighbouring countries were also to be supplied. In the beginning, Liebherr-Africa (Pty) Ltd was responsible for the manufacture and sale of tower cranes, specialized cranes and concrete mixers. Today, the company sells and supports construction machines as well as mining and material handling equipment for the Group. The company has five more branches are operating in Cape Town, Durban, Richards Bay, Brits and Middelburg as well as various agencies, depots and mine sites in other regions of the country and the neighbouring states.  Liebherr-Africa (Pty) Ltd has been serving the needs of the local construction, civil engineering and mining industries since 1958. Palfinger Southern Africa is the official distributor of Palfinger Products in Southern Africa and is also the market leader in this region. Since the pioneering days the product basket has expanded from primarily truck mounted cranes to include production loader cranes for timber and recycling, skip loaders, hook lifts, transportable forklifts, aerial platforms, hydraulic tail lifts and container side lifters. The company carries stock of Cranes, Crane attachments, Hook Loaders, Skip Loaders, Forklifts and Tail Lifts and Aerial Platforms averaging between 200-300 items at our headquarters in Wadeville Johannesburg. Palfinger Southern Africa boasts with 29 Dealers and service centers throughout the Sub-Saharan Africa dividing them into 20 Dealers and service centers in South Africa and 9 Dealers and Service centers situated in Angola, Botswana, Ghana, Zimbabwe, Mauritius, Namibia and Swaziland. Also read:Types of mobile cranes used in construction works Konecranes is a world-leading group of Lifting Businesses, serving a broad range of customers, including manufacturing and process industries, shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes is committed to providing you with lifting equipment and services that increase the value and effectiveness of your business regardless of their lifting needs. The company has always been dedicated to improving efficiency and performance of businesses in all types of industries where it has done this by continuously providing lifting equipment and services people can trust. Konecranes helps their customers to acquire a unique source of global experience and knowledge combined with local know-how to empower your lifting solutions and increase your safety and productivity. Morris Material Handling SA (Pty) Ltd, Southern Africa’s largest crane company, supplies and manufactures electric overhead travelling cranes, hand operated cranes, wire rope hoists, jib cranes, electric & manual chain hoists and accessories. The company was established in 1884 and the South African operation in 1952 expanding to the present factory of 11000m2 in Apex, Benoni in 1984. Today there has been over 10 000 cranes and thousands of hoists supplied across a variety of industries throughout South Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa and across the world. The product range at Morris is predominantly based around the ABUS range of lifting equipment, a range supplied from ABUS Kransysteme GmbH in Germany. These units are manufactured to the highest of European Standards and Morris have had the sole Sub-Saharan Agency for this product range for over a decade and the units have proven themselves in thousands of applications. The company has built a reputation for its professional expertise in design, fabrication, machining and assembly of light, medium and heavy engineering products. Condra cranes and hoists started manufacturing cranes in 1971. Four years later Condra moved to a custom built factory, still in Johannesburg, where design and manufacture of the first hoists began. The company remains headquartered in Johannesburg today, but growth has been such that the size of the original factory and offices was doubled in 1982, and in 2008 Condra moved to its current premises, a 22000m2 site that includes an under-roof area of 8000m2, about three times the size of the previous factory. Condra is organised around four main divisions: Design, Manufacture, Service and Sales. Cranes are designed and manufactured up to an including heavy duty Class 4, and to the standards of ISO, GOST and other internationally recognized quality control bodies. CJH Cranes, Equipment and Plant (Gauteng) Pty Ltd is a company that focuses on specialized and personalized service in the mining, construction and plant industry. The company has been in the market since 2009  where it tower cranes, mobile cranes, self erecting cranes, Crushers, cherry pickers and earth moving equipment. The company is totally committed to providing the highest level of quality services and professional expertise to meet the diverse and changing requirements of our clients at competitive industry rates. It also provides outstanding personalized services that meet the needs of both current and potential clients within the construction and related industries.