The world’s largest atmospheric tower has been built for Nigeria’s Dangote Refinery. The huge atmospheric tower was built by Sinopec, a frontline energy and chemical company in China. According to Sinopec, it will be transported to Nigeria and be installed at the world’s biggest single-train facility, Nigeria’s Dangote Refinery. Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical Complex is sited at Lekki Free Zone, near Lekki Lagoon, in Lagos State, Nigeria. The location, obviously, will facilitate easier evacuation of petroleum products from the refinery to global markets. Sitting on an area of 2500 hectares large, upon completion, the complex will be, not only Africa’s largest, but also the world’s largest single-train refinery. It is expected to be producing 650,000 barrels of fuel per day. Also Read: Nigeria to construct world’s largest single oil refinery The planned annual products of the refinery include 10.4 million tonnes of gasoline, 4.6 million tonnes of diesel and 4 million tonnes of jet fuel. Others to be produced annually are 0.6 million tonnes of polypropylene, 0.5 million tonnes of carbon black feed, 0.24 million tonnes of propane and 32,000 tonnes of sulphur. According to the owner of the refinery, Aliko Dangote, the enormous project will cost between Us $12m and Us $14m. Facilities at the Refinery Complex, the building and shipment of the atmospheric tower are indeed considered a major and significant feat; yet there are other units of the refinery left to be sourced. Among the units to occupy the refinery and petrochemical complex are a mild hydrocracking (MHC) unit, residual fluid catalytic cracking (RFCC), naphtha hydrotreater, RFCC gasoline hydrodesulfurisation (HDS) unit and alkylation units, and others. The refinery complex will also possess infrastructural facilities like access roads, administrative building, pipeline system and tank storage facilities, among others. Importantly, the facility will have a fertiliser plant to be served by the refinery by-products as raw materials. Conclusion The atmospheric tower is supposed to be a major equipment at the Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical Complex. It is expected to process crude oil into fuels including gasoline and diesel.