In partnership with Maxicam Wood designer offer a complete software to CNC solution that includes cabinet software Polyboard, nesting optimization software OptiNest, VCarve and of course a 3 axis CNC. This configuration is optimized for nested based furniture manufacturing but if they add their stair software StairDesigner it can also be a great solution for general stair building. Stringboard Management One of the annoying problems that arise when building stairs is that one often finds oneself with strings that are longer than the bed of the CNC. This is of course the case if your CNC is a smaller model but can also arise even when you have a CNC with a 4m bed as it’s not rare to have strings up to 5m long. Here is a typical case where a simple straight stair requires 2 strings of 4m50 long. To machine these stringers on a CNC with a bed of less than 4m50 they have 2 possibilities, either machine in 2 operations moving the stringer on the machine or make the stringers in 2 parts. If there is enough space either side of the CNC it’s always possible to machine one long string with 2 separate programs by sliding the string along the machine bed. This requires having a straight edge and some precise positioning points so that the 2 machine programs will align. A simpler solution is to use the CNC machine to cut the stringer in 2 separate parts and join them with a puzzle joint. This solution has several advantages: A board of 4m50 x 300mm can get heavy and cumbersome and if you have ever tried to assemble and plane up accurately such a board on a jointer and thickness planer you’ll know what I mean! Because of its amazingly accurate cutting, a CNC allows us to cut joints that would be near impossible or at least tricky and time consuming to cut buy hand. So whether you build furniture or stairs or both, a 3 axis nesting CNC offers an affordable solution with minimal space requirements. At the same time, it will allow your company to manufacture much more effectively in today’s competitive marketplace. With the their partner’s Maxicam, the firm offer the entire start to finish workflow in house. Their focus is very much on providing a complete solution for your business, not just the software or CNC in isolation but all fully supported.