The National Housing Authority (NHA) in partnership with AXHIS, a construction company from Burkina-Faso is set to build affordable housing units for communities in Liberia. NHA and AXHIS will construct 5,000 affordable units in phase one of the project. According to NHA Managing Director Madam Cecelia Cuffy Brown the Government through President George Weah is working towards attracting more investment opportunities in the country. “In that regard, NHA has entered into negotiations with AXHIS and has agreed to work on this project. Modalities are being worked on with the NHA team for the project commencement date,” she said. Madam Brown further said that the project is key in addressing the housing situation in the country and further challenged the NHA team to work together with the investment partners to make sure the project is delivered in the shortest time. Moreover, she reiterated that the development in the housing sector will create job opportunities for the youths and will also support efficient service delivery in the real estate market. “With several offers from international partners and real estate companies coming in, it will not take long before the government realizes it’s affordable housing objective,” she affirmed. Also Read:Liberia signs MOU for construction of 1000 affordable housing units NHA and AXHIS came up with a tripartite agreement with the Liberian Bank for Development and Investment for down payment/cash deposit with the rest expected to be paid through a mortgage in 10 years. Mr. Traore Moulaye Amadou head of AXHIS Technical team said that his team is ready to work together with NHA and Liberia Government in general as they aim to deliver 50,000 affordable housing units nationwide in line with President Weah’s Pro-poor Agenda. Mr. Amadou said they are placing more focus on the F3 category of housing units that will be affordable to Liberians. “Houses on F3 category refers to units that have a living room and 2 bedrooms, which could be suitable for Liberian families aiming to afford a home without the expense of constructing one from scratch. More affluent units would be labeled F4 (3 bedrooms) or F5 (4 bedrooms),” he explained.