Construction of Egypt’s biggest ever petrochemicals complex, dubbed Tahrir Petrochemical Complex (TPC), is set to begin before the end of this year. The complex will be constructed on a 5.2 million sqm piece of land at the Suez Special Economic Development Zone (SC Zone) at the Red sea port of Ain Sokhna. Initially, the project was expected to be complete 19 months ago, but unfortunately it was subjected to a number of hindrances, including Egypt’s political revolution and the subsequent turmoil. The most recent delays have been associated with financing issues. Also Read: South Africa to construct an oil refinery and petrochemical complex Contracts for the US $10.9bn project that include project management consultancy (PMC) contracts as well as four other separate engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contracts were signed June last year. The PMC contract was awarded to Bechtel, a US-based Engineering, Construction and Project Management company while the other four contracts were given to: The Linde Group which is based in Germany, Italy’s Maire Tecnimont; a local engineering, construction and infrastructure company called Hassan Allam Construction and  Archirodon of Greece. However, execution of the EPC contracts is yet to start as the developer, Carbon Holdings, is still seeking equity financing for the project as well as discussing and finalizing technical schedules and other details associated with the EPC contracts. “We are hoping to mobilize the EPC contractors, and see into it that they start to implement their packages, before the year ends.” noted James Bishop The Tahrir Petrochemical Complex (TPC) scheme comprises of a 1.5 million ton-a-year (t/y) ethylene cracker and a polyethylene facility with a capacity of approximately 1.4 million t/y. Other major chemicals to be produced at the complex will include propylene, polypropylene, hexane, butadiene, benzene and styrene. Designed to serve local and international markets, TPC is expected to be the largest naphtha cracker plant in the entire world upon completion. 