Spin Eng has been working with the energy market for almost 30 years around the world. Most projects were carried out through Brazil where the headquarters of the company is located. Nevertheless, the company is expanding and Africa is on the radar. It has been 20 years since the company begun working in the South American region. And since 2017, when a commercial branch of Spin was opened in Toronto-CA, the company sells software to Asian countries – India, Indonesia and the Philippines – through integrators in a structure of value-added reseller. The North-American market is also a focus of Spin and partnerships are being developed. Africa is on the way of Spin’s expansion too. In 2018, the company structured a very successful software SCADA integration project in Angola with a local partner. “We believe this good result is a sign that the African market is opened for business and we intend to expand in the continent”, says Péricles Toledo, CEO of Spin. Renewable energy and data analytics are buzzwords that are shaking the energy market and Spin counts on its developers to offer the best to clients throughout the world. Toledo believes that Spin’s solutions will also satisfy African energy utilities: “We are a very aggressive company in sales and we are used to close the best deals with our clients. But that would be nothing without good products and a well-structured customer relationship management. We know we can count on our team to keep growing and reaching new markets. And Africa is definitely on our way”. Spin has a long tradition of technology development. The company offers one of the most modern and versatile SCADA software in the world, structured in .Net Framework (Microsoft®). This technology allowed Spin to develop the Lean Automation methodology, a fast way to integrate software in energy projects. ActionNET – Spin’s SCADA software – also has a smart grid module for energy distribution utilities and works with all protocols for the energy market, including a KEMA certified version of IEC-61850. But the company goes beyond system automation and offers also business intelligence tools focused on return over investment. In order to keep up with the company’s growth desire, a worldwide project of value-added reseller integrators was structured. The company already works with integrators through Brazil, Asia, North America and Africa. 