Championing better living environments, VELUX Group has created daylight and fresh air into people’s homes all over the world. For more than 75 years, their products have helped create bright, healthy, energy-efficient places in which to live, work, learn and play. Their products include roof windows and modular skylights, as well as a range of decorative elements, blinds, roller shutters, installation solutions and remote controls. The VELUX Group has manufacturing and sales operations in more than 40 countries, with an extensive distribution network. However, VELUX International (VELUX A/S) is responsible for all the sales worldwide including Africa. Currently the company has a dealer located in South Africa, Cape Loft Windows, which has worked with them for more than 20 years. Cape Loft Windows has experience prowess with VELUX Group roofing products providing detailed information of roofing products as well as offering expertise with the installations; they can advise/help the clients decide the best solution for their purposes. They also have a local dealer located in Constantine, that also is creating the awareness of VELUX brand and its involved in several projects “It’s our interest to grow in Africa as we trust there is a potential market for our products, we have a distribution policy through local dealers that we aim to increase in a near future, so the goal is to reach all the world, so that all can have the opportunity to have a sustainable Living based on high energy efficiency, using the sun as a renewable energy source and improving the indoor climate. We are focusing on creating living environments with daylight and fresh air through the roof, and contributing to the energy balance of buildings,” says Cristina Rodrigues, VELUX Group export assistant. Their products range can be supplied immediately from their export stock to Africa if a client is interested and desire to have their roofing products. They provide roofing products information, installation procedures and help arrange transportation at competitive prices.  In the last years they already supplied their VELUX products to Kenya, Tanzania, Congo, Ghana, Nigeria, Morocco, Egypt and Algeria. In this last country, Algeria, we also have a local dealer located in Constantine, that also is creating the awareness of VELUX brand and its involved in several projects. Their moto: ‘Bringing light to life.’ This already says a lot on what clients can expect from VELUX roofing brand. More daylight: Daylight Is good for both body and mind, and the more of it we get the healthier we are. More comfort: A comfortable home is one that provides a lot of fresh air, natural light, pleasant temperatures, security and peace of mind Energy economy: The world is waking to the costs of high energy consumption, by using the forces of nature to provide indoor comfort the VELUX roof windows lower energy costs and Co2 emissions. The quality of their roof window and flashing system ensures a tight installation in the roof and provides light and ventilation to the attic, transforming the room into a bright and airy living or working space. VELUX products are globally the most used roof window due to its high quality and long lifetime. Their product programme includes roof windows and modular skylights, decorative blinds, sun screening products and roller shutters, as well as installation and smart home solutions. These products help to ensure a healthy and sustainable indoor climate, for work and learning, for play and pleasure. They work globally – with sales and manufacturing operations in more than 40 countries and around 11,000 employees worldwide.VELUX roofing technology VELUX Group has recently launched the VELUX ACTIVE. This innovate technology (VELUX ACTIVE) is available in South Africa. For the first time ever, you can now tell your roof windows to open or close for a better and healthier living environment. VELUX ACTIVE with NETATMO is the first smart roof window system that connects with Apple HomeKit, allowing homeowners to manage indoor climate control at home or remotely across all Apple devices, including iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, Apple TV and HomePod. The system can be controlled using Siri®, Apple’s voice-controlled intelligent assistant, or with the touch of a button on the Apple Home app. VELUX Group has recently launched a campaign worldwide alerting the problems for our modern society, living indoors where we spent 90% of our time, for instance being in offices working or in schools. It’s important for all of us to re-think the way we live indoors. From individuals to architects, from companies to governments, we all have a responsibility to do everything we can to make sure our homes are healthy places to live and grow up in. For more than 75 years, VELUX has been dedicated to improving people’s quality of life by helping to ensure homes and workplaces can get enough light and fresh air VELUX Group have a vast range of products for several types of roofs, so they are prepared to give different solutions always taking in consideration what the client desires and its possibility of implementation.