Hollow core slabs are a popular and reliable building material known for flexibility, long life span and structural efficiency. Ultraspan is a trusted hollow core machinery and other hollow core equipment that together make exceptional hollow core production system. From basic production lines for low budget projects to fully automated facilities. UltraSpan supplies complete hollow core equipment solutions for precast plants. Production is independent from weather conditions. The outdoor solution: Hollow core slabs offer many advantages, including: As a hollow core machinery manufacturer, UltraSpan supplies complete hollow core machinery and equipment solutions for precast plants. Our products include hollow core machines such as: Extruders , Slipformers, Concrete saws, Plotters, Erection clamps, Lifting clamps, Casting pallets and Production service vehicles. With the acquisition of these hollow core machines, a precast plant can be fully equipped with a full hollow core production system. UltraSpan provides hollow core solutions for both indoor and outdoor precast concrete plants. Our hollow core extrusion machinery and production systems are built with versatility in mind, making for easy adaptation to both indoor and outdoor environments. UltraSpan also offers mobile equipment including specialized equipment such as: Ultra Span supplies complete solutions for precast plants. From very basic production lines for low budget customers to high tech, fully automated facilities. The mobile solution:  At UltraSpan, they aim to deliver quality results without cutting any corners whatsoever. This is why they make it their goal to work as closely as possible with their customers in order to ensure a smooth and prosperous partnership. Their simplistic hollow core productions systems are easy to use and hassle-free, making it easier for clients’ precast concrete plant to operate at a higher level of productivity. For over 50 years, ULTRASPAN has been supporting precast producers improve their operations. They started by building simpler, smarter equipment with fewer components that used less material. That allowed producers to increase throughput and avoid downtime and costly maintenance hassles. Over the years, they have worked hand-in-hand with precast producers to evolve their solutions. The company is inspired and driven by customers to focus on what matters – equipment designed with simplicity in mind that increases throughput, reduces downtime, and drives increased profitability. They collaborate with customers over the long-term to ensure they achieve the business results they seek. In 2013, ULTRASPAN became part of the PROGRESS GROUP. With over 500 combined plants worldwide, manufacturing facilities in four countries, local offices in all continents, a complete product range, and more sales and customer service personnel than any other competitor, the Group continues strengthening its leadership in the industry. Their strength, experience, resources and commitment to the industry is firms customer’s peace of mind for any project size.