HawkeyePedershaab first announced the formation of their Afinitas platform in August 2018. Since that time they have been working hard to combine the strengths of HawkeyePedershaab, BFS, New Hampton Metal Fabrication, Spillman Company and CAM Products, to bring you the most expertise, service and selection available in the industry. As one company, Afinitas is focused on bringing new products and services to help you grow your business. Prima and Ecoresist are just a few of their products. An ECORESIST – pipe bell and spigot end consist of pre-fabricated shock and impact proof moulded elements, which properties supplement those of the liners. ECORESIST – liner system pipes are continuously lined with a corrosion resistant Polymer Material. Securely encased by a load bearing and bend proof concrete sleeve ECORESIST – pipes, with their Polymer spigots and bells, guarantee an accurate fitting, sheer force resistance and simplest handling during installation. Pipe after pipe with the highest quality standard; designed for large numbers, the ECORESIST – System excels with convincing economical advantages. With the patented ECORESIST production procedure concrete pipes are manufactured with a continuous corrosion resistant polymer inner lining. This qualifies them for the contact with aggressive media like biogenous sulfur acid. Additionally their high pressure flush resistance and absolute water tightness turn them into the first choice for durable waste water lines. The concept: The fully automated computer controlled production procedure creates a continuous high product quality. Short change over times are an additional guarantor for a perfect machine efficiency. The production cycle in the SOUVERAEN machine conception is perfectionised down to the smallest details. A low wear, low maintenance and low energy production are guaranteed. “Our companies build production plants worldwide for the manufacture of concrete pipes, manholes and box culverts. From simple stand-alone machines to fully automated plants incorporating the latest in automation, HawkeyePedershaab and BFS furnish a total family of solutions. With our dedicated project management department you will have a single-point of contact in our organization. This is your guarantee for getting a precast concrete plant which runs optimum day after day,” explains Torben Mørch Sales Manager and Director of Global Marketing. Afinitas is a global, comprehensive and customer-oriented infrastructure equipment and services platform that brings together the expertise of HawkeyePedershaab, BFS, New Hampton Metal Fab, CAM Products and Spillman. Afinitas strengthens its commitment to providing best-in-class solutions and service for its customers around the world. Afinitas is part of BW Forsyth Partners, LLC, the investment arm of multibillion-dollar global manufacturing and engineering consulting firm Barry-Wehmiller. Headquartered in St. Louis, MO (USA), Afinitas has more than 350 team members worldwide in manufacturing, sales and service facilities in the USA, Denmark, Germany, Italy and India, focused on providing customers with robust equipment and engineering solutions and world-class service on all corners of the globe.