Good service is not only a good product quality but also a very important key in a customer relationship. With fast, straightforward help, costly downtime can be avoided if and when it happens. For optimum customer support, Probst GmbH now offers its customers an extended service offering with digital tools, maintenance contracts and a new spare parts catalog.  “Quality is not only a must for us in terms of our products,” explains Claudio Licata, Service Manager at Probst GmbH, “but also in relation to our services”. How serious it means the leading manufacturer of gripping and laying technology, he proves at this year’s bauma. There, the new extended service world will be presented to the general public for the first time. The Probst service will be more digital and thus faster and more transparent for its customers. “Our goal is to reduce downtime for our customers by taking appropriate action,” says Claudio Licata, “or even completely preventing it.”A central tool for this is the manufacturer’s new service app “Probst Service”. “The customer’s cell phone becomes our eye and our ear. In many cases, this allows us to specify the malfunction immediately and directly on site, “explains the service manager. This app has been programmed specifically for Probst and offers two basic features: knowledge platform and video streaming. In practice, the strength of this combination is apparent: A service case occurs. The customer calls Probst and tries to describe his problem. But usually it is not possible for him to locate the malfunction. Where up to now the service technician had to set off to get to the bottom of the matter – and thus spent valuable time on the construction site – the customer’s mobile phone with the Probst app is now a quick eye and ear to the service technician.  The Probst technician dials the smartphone via a one-time code confirmed by the customer. The on-site operator can make the problem visible and audible to the expert with the camera integrated in his smartphone and the microphone – and without a language barrier. “For minor problems, we can then give the operator on the phone a short help, so that he can then solve the matter itself,” said Claudio Licata. “No matter where in the world he is, our service technician is thus virtually with words and deeds immediately on the spot.” If a replacement part needed, then this is sent directly after the video call by Nachtexpress. “Or the service technician drives to the customer and then has the right part with him.  This intelligent app will make it more targeted, “says the service manager,” and our customers can quickly work with their machine again. “If a replacement part is required, then this will be sent directly after the video call by Nachtexpress.”Or the service technician drives to the customer and then has the right part with him. This intelligent app will make it more targeted, “says the service manager,” and our customers can quickly work with their machine again. “If a replacement part is required, then this will be sent directly after the video call by Nachtexpress.”Or the service technician drives to the customer and then has the right part with him. This intelligent app will make it more targeted, “says the service manager,” and our customers can quickly work with their machine again. “ To Probst knowledge In addition to the video function, this app also offers the customer direct access to a service platform, from where operating instructions, spare parts overviews and product information can be downloaded. In many cases, he can use this information in a very convenient and self-sufficient manner and specify his request. The app itself is downloadable for free via the Google and Apple stores. “For us it is a very important tool for faster support, even more transparency – and ultimately for the reduction of downtime – and thus a huge increase in cost-effectiveness for our customers,” explains Claudio Licata. In addition to digital tools, print materials also play a major role in service. Probst has completely revised the concept of its spare parts catalog. “Each spare part is now not only described but also shown on a picture,” explains Claudio Licata. “This streamlines the processes in the repair shops of our customers, because the required part can be identified immediately and ordered directly.” For customers looking for an all-inclusive package, Probst also offers maintenance contracts with immediate effect. Modular can be chosen between several packages – from the basic service to the complete package. Regular maintenance makes an extremely important contribution to avoid downtime. Thus, the Probst devices are always optimally prepared for construction site use.    Probst GmbH offers the world’s widest range of handling and installation equipment for the construction and construction industries.