Leading chemical and adhesives manufacturer; Mapei, has released its new locally produced multi-functional cementitious tile adhesive, Adesilex P4, a C2F class adhesive which can also be used as a levelling compound. Adesilex P4 is first and foremost an innovative, rapid-setting, semi-fluid, full contact adhesive which has the added benefit of 100% tile coverage, eliminating the need for back-buttering on large format tiles. This results in costs savings in both time and consumption per square metre (subject to required thickness). It is ideal for use as an adhesive on ceramic, porcelain and natural stone (non-moisture sensitive) installations in internal and external environments. The product is easily trowellable and allows for light traffic within 4 hours. As a smoothing compound, it can be used on interior and exterior surfaces generally found on site up to a maximum of 20mm thick. Providing the substrate is clean with no loose debris, it can absorb deflections on the substrate and provides easy levelling and localized smoothing which sets within 4 hours. This gives contractors the ability to use a single product to ensure both a cost and time savings on projects. What’s more, it can even be used as a mortar for brick and concrete block walls for building, wherever quick curing and high strengths are required “It is important to remember that if the easy-to-use product is used as both a smoothing compound and a tile adhesive – the smoothing layer needs to be hardened and prepared correctly before proceeding with the tile application” says Zamaswazi Ntobela, ceramics product manager for Mapei South Africa. Adesilex P4 is suitable in heavy traffic zones, such as offices, shopping malls, hospitals and schools. Its wide temperature range means it can just as easily be used over underfloor heating installations or any other application where temperature extremes may occur. “Although our product guarantees 100% coverage of surfaces with no need to ‘back-butter’ large-format tiles, it also provides the benefit of one multipurpose product with the obvious cost and time saving benefits!” adds Zamaswazi. Mapei South Africa is part of the Mapei Group, an Italian-based multinational that is a leading manufacturer of chemical and adhesive products for the construction industry. As part of the multinational group, Mapei South Africa passes numerous benefits onto its client base by having access to knowledgeable technical experts, research capabilities and product specialists. Mapei South Africa distributes its products throughout sub-Saharan Africa.