Many tasks on construction sites, in workshops or on the production line for industry produce large amounts of dust; that’s where safety vacuum cleaners come in handy. This is because various precautions must be taken in order to comply with work protection regulations and keep the impact on health as low as possible. The aim is to keep work environments largely dust-free. Even supposedly harmless types of dust can have an impact on or cause lasting damage to your health when the concentration of dust in the air is very high. Types of dust that also contain constituents such as pollen, quartz, mould, viruses or even asbestos are especially problematic. Categorising types of dust in terms of the impact they have on your health depends on the grain size as well as the properties and exterior shape of the material concerned. For example, what makes asbestos dust dangerous is not only its particle size, but mainly its special fibre structure. Coarse dust comprises of particles that have a diameter of at least 10 μm. Smaller fine dust particles (dust class E) that have a grain size of between 10 μm and 0.1 μm can enter your nose, throat, larynx and wind pipe by just breathing in. Alveoli or respiratory class A dust with a diameter of less than 0.1 μm is so fine that it can even penetrate deep into the respiratory tract and alveoli. Possible consequences of this are reduced lung function, for example, or respiratory diseases such as asthma, silicosis, fibrosis as well as COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). Safety vacuum cleaners are designed in such a way that they facilitate reliable absorption and disposal of such particles. In the last few years, many details of safety vacuum cleaners used for vacuuming hazardous or large amounts of dust were developed further in terms of efficiency and user-friendliness. This includes, for example, more effective filter cleaning systems which allow uninterrupted operation, even when dealing with very large quantities of dust. New materials offer a high level of convenience. Consequently, operation, including disposal has become easier. Sensible measures for reducing the impact of dust: The KärcherNT vacuum cleaners which are equipped with a power outlet for working with power tools, are also known as dust collectors. This makes them especially suitable for general use on a construction site.  