The county government of Mombasa has forwarded to the state’s Department of Housing and Urban Development, an ambitious plan to upgrade the coastal city to a manufacturing and value addition hub with world-class infrastructure. Dubbed Mombasa County Urban Regeneration Project, the plan was crafted by the county government department of housing and urban development in consultation with the ministries of Tourism and Environment. Experts from Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) and Technical University of Mombasa were also involved. Also Read: Construction of US $249m Alaro City in Nigeria on track The plan includes construction of an international conference center namely Mombasa International Convention Centre (MICC) which is expected to cost between US $58m and US $97m. Upon completion the Convention Centre will increase the average annual hotel occupancy from the current 40% to 80% by 2025 and ensure all year-round foreign and local visits. To address the growing concerns in cancer management, the county also plans to establish a comprehensive cancer care and treatment center on a land that will be provided by the Kenya Ports Authority (KPA), so that diagnosed patients will not have to travel to Nairobi or abroad for treatment. Moreover, the plan outlines construction of US $483m affordable homes in Miritini Green, Changamwe, Tudor, Khadija, Mzizima, Buxton, Likoni Customs, Likoni Flats, Nyerere, Mvita, Tom Mboya and Kaa Chonjo estates in an effort to plug a 380,000 unit deficit in the city. Other projects in the plan include construction of a US $6m high-rise vehicle parking lot at Makadara grounds with a capacity to accommodate at least 1000 vehicles; a lay out of a US$ 10m, 46.9km storm water drainage system that cuts across Mvita, Changamwe, Jomvu, Kisauni, Nyali and Likoni sub-counties to address recurrent floods that have led to loss of lives and property in the past. Additionally, the county eyes construction of a fish port plus processing plant and a slaughterhouse at the cost of US $24m and US $16m respectively. On the plan is also a start of a US $60m bus rapid transport system to ease movement within the City. All the projects will be funded through a Public Private Partnership (PPP), more specifically, the tourism fund, government loans and development partners. 