The government of Ghana has commissioned the construction of a pre-fabrication manufacturing plant in Dawhenya, in the Greater Accra region. A Ghanian Company, B5 Plus Group, is set to start construction of the first phase. Commissioning the project, the Minister of Trade and Industry Mr Alan Kyeremanten, acknowledged the management of B5 Plus to take advantage of the Continental Free Trade Area to export their products into other regional markets outside of ECOWAS. Also read:Bio-organic fertilizer manufacturing plants in Kenya to be constructed According to the minister, the company which produced various metal products and served as inputs for the downstream metal fabrication and construction industries, had a strong presence in the ECOWAS market, exporting to Togo, Burkina Faso, Niger, Nigeria, Benin, Sierra Leone, Liberia and Mali. “The private sector will continue to remain at the centre stage of the government’s economic transformational agenda as we develop mutual partnerships towards the realisation of the hopes and aspirations of Ghanaians in building Ghana beyond aid,” he added. Additionally the Chairman of B5 Plus Group, Mr Mike Mukesh Thakwani has commended the government for creating an enabling environment for private businesses to thrive. He said the company as part of its corporate social responsibility organized a blood donation exercise, health screening, and supported in education to give back to the community in which it operated. The plant will be another significant achievement of the Industrial Transformation Programme of government which is aimed at transforming the structure of the country’s economy from exporter of raw materials to trading in value-added products. Once completed, the project will produce various forms of metal and metal related products for both local and international markets. The factory will be one of the largest State of-the-art steel manufacturing plants in Africa with production capacity of 25,000 metric tons per month. It will also create about 10,000 direct and indirect jobs for the people in the surrounding community and its environs.  