Ghana’s market leaders in the construction and management of artificial football turf, Wembley Sports Construction Company limited (WSCCL), broke grounds to mark the commencement of construction of US $734,000 sports and recreational complex at Tema Manhean near Accra. Also Read:Construction of ultramodern military sports complex in Ghana begins The project, aimed at unearthing talents, promoting good health and tourism is being funded by the Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority (GPHA). The facility will feature an 8,030 square meters artificial football turf(astro turf) fitted with floodlights with seating capacity for 1,000 spectators, a main building with VIP and changing room. The project would also have a multi-purpose court for basketball, lawn tennis, a playing ground for children and a car park. The grass being used for the project was the best quality approved by the Federation of International Football Association (FiFa). This is according to General Manager of Wembley Sports Construction Company, Nana Antwi adding that it was guaranteed to last for 12 years. The sport complex facilitated by the Member of Parliament for the Tema East Constituency and deputy Minister of Transport, Nii Kwartei Titus-Glover and Nii Adjei Kraku II, Paramount Chief of Tema is being constructed by Wembley Sports Construction Company Limited, the experts in artificial Turf construction and Management. Construction of the project is expected to be completed in 12 months. Youth in the area will receive training to handle the maintenance of the facility after completion. Speaking at the ceremony, Titus-Glover who is also the Deputy Minister for Transport thanked the Management of GPHA and the Tema Traditional Council (TTC) for the gesture which would go a long way to help sports development especially football in the area. Mr. Titus added that the area abound in football talents, mentioning a few like Adjei Alaska, Shamo Quaye both of blessed memory and Abladey Kuma among others who featured prominently for the national football team the Black Stars.  