Ghana is set to complete the rehabilitation of US $50m Tono Water Treatment Plant in 2021; This is according to President Akufo-Addo after he paid a visit to the site of the project. The contract for the Tono Water Treatment Plant was awarded in August 2019. When completed and handed over to the Ghana Water Company Limited to commence operations, the project is expected to produce 20,500 cubic meters of water a day. According to the project coordinator, Annalies De Beule, the project, over a period spanning from 2021 to 2040 will end up serving over 200,000 people in the beneficiary municipalities and district with very good water mainly for domestic use. “The project is 30% completed and currently has 20km of water transmission lines installed which will be upgraded to 100km when extra funding is secured,” she added. The construction company working on the Tono Water Treatment Plant project at Navrongo in the Kassena-Nankana Municipality, Daneys, has given the assurance that the work will be completed on time. Once completed, the project is expected to have almost 100km of transmission line laid between the Kassena-Nankana and Bolgatanga Municipality and the Bolgatanga East District. The project is also expected to provide water for 12 months of farming, a departure from the current trend of farming less than six months in the Upper East Region. Also Read:Egypt awards contract for construction of US $739m water treatment plant In addition to that, the president also said that the rehabilitation and modernization of the Tono Irrigation Scheme will be completed in July 2020. The on-going works on the Tono Irrigation Scheme will include: rehabilitation and improvement of existing lined canals and associated hydraulic structures; construction of new lined and unlined canals and associated hydraulic structures; upgrading and repair of earthen roads; repair of dam wall, spillways and appurtenances; and the construction of ancillary infrastructure such as drying facilities. The project, which has aided in the production of crops such as rice, tomato, soyabeans, onions, pepper and other leafy vegetables, will contribute greatly in enhancing food security in the Upper East Region and the nation as a whole.