Worldwide Steel Buildings’ state-of-the-art design and unique combination of materials make construction simple and trouble-free. Their buildings are designed to be erected by people without previous construction experience. At Worldwide Steel Buildings, they do more work in manufacturing center so you do less work on site. With their help you can have your building up in just days but not weeks. Worldwide Steel Buildings’ reputation of offering the strongest building in the market at an economical price sets Worldwide apart from the competition. With a combined 100+ years of experience their staff will help you design the building that is right for you. The company’s Steel Truss design has proven to be the strongest truss available, yet easy to work with during the assembly process. They back the open web truss with a 50 year warranty. Complete steel and metal building packages can be customized and combined with other materials to create an aesthetically sound building designed for your special requirements. Worldwide Steel Buildings offers several truss designs starting with the open web truss. This truss offers unmatched strength with the ease of assembly not requiring heavy equipment to set your trusses. Rigid frame trusses are ideal for commercial buildings and are available in clear-spans up to 225′. Gambrel trusses are design for the agricultural / farm building look. All trusses are available in standard or long bay options. Your building can be designed to virtually any desired dimension to achieve the optimal solution for your building requirements at the most economical price available. The company manufacture buildings with the do-it-yourself in mind. All Worldwide Steel Building Trusses are pre-punched and easily bolt together and have the purlin and girt clips factory welded for ease of construction. All steel purlins are girts attach the clips with self-drilling screws. Your sheet metal attaches to the purlins and girts with colored, self-drilling screws that are flanged and self-sealing to prevent leaks. Your building also comes with a step-by-step assembly manual to guide you or your local contractor from start to completion of your building. They manufacture trusses & buildings with the do-it-yourselfer in mind. All Worldwide Steel Building Trusses are pre-punched and easily bolt together and have the purlin and girt clips factory welded for ease of construction. All steel purlins and girts attach to the clips with self-drilling screws. Your sheet metal attaches to the purlins and girts with colored, self-drilling screws that are flanged and self-sealing to prevent leaks. Your building also comes with a step-by-step erection manual to guide you or your local contractor from start to completion of your building. The company has color selector to help clients customize the look and a feel of their steel building. All of firm’s buildings can be customized with wide-range of available colors. Worldwide Steel Buildings can ensure that clients outfit it with the accessories they desire in order to make new building exactly the way they want it. They can incorporate just about any item into steel and metal building. Worldwide Steel Buildings has over 30 years of experience designing and manufacturing the strongest and most reliable metal buildings and trusses. They opened their plant in 1983, and they currently own and operate the largest open-web truss facility in the industry. They have the experience and processes to create and deliver the reliable structures clients need. The company completely eliminate the “middle-man markup” by producing the steel trusses and secondary framing in their own factory. Worldwide manufacture these metal building kits from American-made steel, and every design is designed to handle any snow or wind load in the country. There are tons of options and components that can go into any steel building package. Worldwide Steel Buildings uses only the highest quality materials when putting together your steel building kit.