Since 1999, TKS Door proved its quality with various international standardization. The company’s mission is to become a well-known “manufacturer of wooden facing and MDF Doors” on the globe. They have a capacity of 5000 inner room door production per month and they guarantee customer satisfaction. TKS Door produces custom designs and materials of good quality products with guaranteed perfection due to their advanced technology machines that are made in Turkey. They are manufacturers, wholesalers, and exporters of interior-doors, containers, steel, and prefabricated houses with quality certificates obtained from various international measurement and standardization organizations. The production capacity of the factory is 5000   doors, 250 containers per month, and approximately 1000 prefabricated house and 800 steel houses per year. The company’s investments in the construction sector, continued with the investment they made to the prefabricated buildings which were prefabricated in 2003. The investment that the company made with the forecasting of the needs of people in today’s conditions of the industry that we have made a proper investment, proved they understand their work. TKS Door has been able to use the screws they have produced completely with screw system. They are proud of themselves of being the indispensable of their suppliers. They have become a serious company in the sector which has been mentioned in the company with its high quality buildings and reasonable prices. Their investments and activities will continue to increase the company’s weight in the sector. TKS Door integrates its years of experience and knowledge in its products. At TKS Door, the company has been implementing a production plan intertwined with technology since the day it was established; every new product coming out of their production facility contains completely innovation. The company creates the most suitable design for you and your project with its technical teams. Choosing a one time is enough for the company not to give up. Altogether, TKS Door follows the innovations in the world and provides service to its corporate customers quickly and efficiently. TKS DOOR is the locomotive of the sector with world-class production technology and product. At TKS Kapi brand, they offer solutions to their valued customers since the day they were established with the understanding of 100% customer satisfaction. The company provides instant solutions by considering the return of its customers. TKS Door guarantees consumer satisfaction with their state-of-the-art machinery and experienced staff. The company is located in Aksaray Organized industry zone which has a great advantage in the center of Turkey and transportation roads.