4M Solutions meet the needs of the entire range of the Building Design Industry, including Professional CAD, Architectural Design, Structural Analysis & Design, Building Services Design (HVAC, Electrical and Plumbing) and other software applications. The new IDEA19 has been redesigned from the start with new generation BIM technology and a new GUI (with Ribbon menus) but also a new display engine and read / write functions directly in DWG2018 / 2019 format for unique speeds (ODA Technology – Opendesign). It is fully compatible with both DWG files (opens DWG files of any version up to DWG2018 and 2019 format) and BIM (IFC) files for full and compact collaboration with any other BIM Architecture (eg ArchiCAD, Revit, Allplan et al.). Among many other things, the new edition also allows the automatic production of charts (Topographic and TDI) for submission to the National Land Registry. In more detail, the features of the new IDEA19 are described below: 1. Comprehensive Code Restructuring with New Innovative BIM Design 2. Program interface 3. BIM modeling 3.1 General Functions Ability to modify the properties of all BIM entities from the property panel. Ability to use any of these features as a filter for entity selection via quick select. 3.2 Special Functions (regarding the building blocks) 4. Topographic 5. Photorealism – Rendering 6. IFC compatibility 7. Libraries 8. New CAD Engine Includes all new features of the latest 4MCAD v.19 release, such as: 9. Other Improvements IDEA Architectural Package General Philosophy Freedom in Architectural Composition Some of IDEA’s advanced Architectural Composition features are the following: Easy to configure each item in real time Free creation and modification of composite elements (stairs, railings, roofs, gables, ramps, as well as more specialized elements such as Chimney, Pergola, etc.) without restrictions. The user has the feeling that he / she is managing flexible objects whose changes he / she is observing in real time.  Of the numerous modelers, Roof Modeler is an indication, among the many roofing modeling possibilities offered by any type of inserts (eg lofts of any form, holes, openings, skylights, etc.), or automatic jointing of individual roofs, the possibility of defining double tilting on the same side, the ability to extend each side separately and many more. Exposure Generators Generators of any kind of openings (windows, doors, sliding etc) beyond the multitude of ready-made library openings, as well as railings, with the help of which the user can easily and unconditionally compose any form of data. Rich Libraries Plenty of ready-made symbols, objects and architectural details, organized into categories and subcategories, with a dynamic library manager that allows you to easily manage existing projects and integrate new ones, even defining library categories from the beginning Smart BIM Study Plans Manager IDEA contains a tree-view explorer that keeps live drawings of what the user defines in his study (eg views, sections, perspectives, etc.) in relation to both changes to the building model and with any user additions / interventions on these drawings (eg tagging, inserting symbols or drawings from libraries, comments, altimeters, etc.). Another striking feature of IDEA due to its BIM structure. High Performance Photorealism With the integrated PhotoIDEA Photorealistic program, high quality photorealistic scenes are produced at the touch of a button thanks to the intelligent BIM structure. The user has immediate photorealistic visualization of each scene of his construction and unlimited ease of testing through the possibilities of selective or group interference in every parameter (materials, lighting, background etc.). In addition, the IDEA user can navigate in and out of the photorealistic building at the same time that he is composing his model, thanks to the fast hiding and animation algorithms in OpenGL. Additional Features Advanced Surveying The most powerful and automated Topographic 2D-3D, with leveling, excavation-overlays and fully automatic triangulation and also automatic creation of Ideal Solid and Topographic Texts & Coverage Chart. Ventilation and signboard), but also when architecturally demanding (eg staircase creation), thanks to the building’s intelligent structured information (BIM). In addition, AutoREG contains commands for import and edit orthophoto, import EGS coordinates, EGS cannabis import, CGS import, while still applying the NOK to the add-on Nomos to produce the cover diagram, thereby also providing the choice between GCR and NOK for its production cover. Finally, it works with Google Earth to import an image from it and export a model to Google Earth. Collaboration with ADEIA for the issuance of a Building License – Automatic production of building permit forms  – Automatic production of building permit files (in collaboration with ADEIA) directly from the projects: The  Fire Safety Study as well as the Fee-Tax-IKA, Minimum Cost, Thousand-Allotment Forms arbitrary etc are automatically generated from the IDEA floor plans. – Automatic Material Counting: Detailed Material Counting, in collaboration with the ADEIA homepage module: Counting total or per level or space and with the degree of analysis desired by the user, without any preliminary drawings, as well as further processing capability (eg. selection of prices & materials from building materials libraries, offer configuration etc.) in a handy spreadsheet environment. ADD ON IDEA Applications In addition to ADEIA, IDEA can also collaborate with the following ADD ON applications: IDEA-Smart: Prodiastasiologisi IDEA-Nomos: Automatic Builder IDEA T-Roof: Wooden Roof Compact Collaboration with 4M Packages IDEA works closely with all 4M Building Design Packages and in particular: IDEA collaboration with STRAD: The building is transferred from IDEA to STRAD to follow the Static study IDEA Collaboration with FINE: The building is being transferred from IDEA to FINE to study one or more of its E / M Facilities IDEA Collaboration with 4M-KENAK: The building is transferred from IDEA to GCAD / KENAK for full automation of energy efficiency study and energy inspection.IDEA Collaboration with FineGREEN: The building is transferred from IDEA to  FineGREEN to perform a detailed energy simulation (power plus engine)   Collaboration with every BIM PackageThrough the IFC format with which IDEA is fully compatible (in both read/write and write / output), IDEA works with all market BIM packages, including Revit, ArchiCAD, AllPlan and others. All building information (walls, windows, slabs) is transferred directly from IDEA to BIM Packages and vice versa.   In conclusion, IDEA is the only Architecture in the Greek Market with such a wide range of innovative ADD ON applications, as well as collaborations with all 4M Packages (FINE, STRAD, 4M-KENAK and Fine GREEN) that multiply its value and make it an Absolute Station Working on Architectural Designs. 