Revolutionising the world of measurement and survey for nearly 200 years, Leica Geosystems, part of Hexagon, creates complete solutions for professionals across the planet. Known for premium products and innovative solution development, professionals in a diverse mix of industries, such as aerospace and defence, safety and security, construction, and manufacturing, trust Leica Geosystems for all their geospatial needs. With precise and accurate instruments, sophisticated software, and trusted services, Leica Geosystems delivers value every day to those shaping the future of our world. Using real-time, on-demand GPS tracking, LOC8 tracks assets across geographical boundaries. Going beyond just tracking, LOC8 enables the remote lock or unlock of total stations through an app or web account. Further deterring thefts, LOC8 also uses GeoFences to immediately alert owners if an instrument is removed from a particular area that has set virtual boundaries, such as work sites or office locations. “Theft of surveying equipment has increased significantly causing everyone in the industry to take action and provide better, safer working practices and environments,” said Mark Francis, Leica Geosystems geomatics market segment manager for the UK and Ireland. “Innovations such as LOC8 enable Leica Geosystems to stand up against theft and change the perception that our equipment is a soft target, whilst increasing the likelihood of the police knocking on the perpetrator’s door.” Hexagon is a global leader in sensor, software and autonomous solutions. The company is putting data to work to boost efficiency, productivity, and quality across industrial, manufacturing, infrastructure, safety, and mobility applications. Their technologies are shaping urban and production ecosystems to become increasingly connected and autonomous — ensuring a scalable, sustainable future. Hexagon‘s solutions are used all over Africa and this presence is facilitated by a large distribution network who provide first-class sales and support to their customers. In 2018, Leica Geosystems opened a new office in Casablanca, increasing levels of support and local expertise to its customers and partners. The office will act as a hub for North Africa and will strengthen Hexagon’s position on the African continent.