Yong Li Jian Aluminium Engineering Co., Ltd is a large-scale and multi-functional enterprise which produces aluminium alloy, possesses construction curtain wall engineering design and installation first class qualification and metal door and window. They have 5,000 ton annual aluminium profile production composite and 500,000 square meters fabrication and installation capability for construction curtain wall, aluminium door & window. Established in September 1986 and located in Foshan city, Guangdong Province, China. Our products are exquisite. Each part goes through screening process to ensure the high quality of the products. All products are completely an essence of excellent technology. Yong Li Jian Aluminum Co., Ltd successfully completed transformation in May, 2000 and became a new and vigorous joint venture. The further consolidation and elevation of technical power and staff quality has provided a more preferential condition for the development of the company. Yong Li Jian Aluminium Engineering Co., Ltd is one of the most famous Aluminium factories in Guangdong, China. It is one of the earliest aluminum companies which concentrate on: Facade for construction, Curtain Wall, Windows, Doors, Cladding, ACP Alucobond, Skylights, Louvers, Shutters, Sun rooms, Canopies and Balustrades/ Handrails. The aluminum profile manufactured and curtain walls, doors and windows installed by Yong Li Jian are of great quality. The products have received good evaluations from users and the construction management department. The products obtained national quality certification and ISO 9001 standard quality management system certificate. Over the years, the company has gathered, trained and reserved talent team with professional techniques. Relying on the manufacturing base, the company has set up material labs and purchased professional software for the design of curtain walls, door and window designs, which has provided a technical platform for the research, development and system optimization of curtain walls, doors and windows. The main items of the company is engineering qualification is “the first level project design and construction of building a curtain wall”, which is the curtain wall industry is top qualification, and can engage in all heights, all types of architectural curtain wall design, construction, and project management-related techniques and management services. Yong Li Jian Aluminum Co., Ltd will always pursue reputation with honesty and credulity and take the market with quality. The company insists on innovation and full internationalization to make great contribution for the creation of beautiful home and a harmonious world between human and the nature. Create values for the customers, staffs and shareholders and achieve success. The company mainly operates in construction consulting and engineering business. They have projects in China, Kenya, Rwanda, Mauritius, Nigeria, Angola, South Africa, Ghana, America, Canada, Australia, Philippines, Trinidad Tobago, Estate of Qatar, Guyana and they are continuously expanding to the whole world. Some of their projects are: In Nairobi, Kenya:PRISM TOWER in Third Ngong Avenue, Upper Hill. (Completed), UAP TOWER in Upperhill Road, Upper Hill. (Completed), MUTHAIGA HEIGHTS in Sixth Parklands Avenue, Parklands. (Completed), SANLAM TOWER in Waiyaki Way, Westlands. (Completed), NAIROBI WEST HOSPITAL in Gandhi Ave, Nairobi City, Kenya. (Ongoing) In Rwanda:Kigali Independent College, Adventist University Of Central Africa, M-Peace Plaza And Rwanda Institute Of Computer Technology. In Angola:Ika Hotel. In South Africa:Kingsway. In Ghana:A&C Mall And Zion House. In Nigeria:Park N Shop Supermarket. In Mauritius:CMT Villa. In Montreal, Canada:Tom Condos. In CEBU, Philippines:Apple One Equicom And City Mall. In Sidney, Australia:Hume Show Room in 30-32 Pine Road, Yennora, Sidney, Australia. In Trinidad & Tobago:Bhagwansingh Trincity Commercial Building (BTC). In Doha, Qatar:Almana Tower. In USA:Lesso Home in Westbury, New York, United States. Their Aluminium factory is located in Gaoming District, Foshan City, Guangdong Province, China. Their main offices are located in 2nd Floor, No. 1&2 of Building J, Yong Li Jian Aluminium Co., Ltd, Shagang Shiwan Town, Chancheng District, Foshan City, Guangdong Province, China; with African branch offices in Kenya at Nairobi, Sifa Towers, Suite F, 9th Floor, Lenana Rd, Kilimani Area.