The sanitary giant features a horde of exciting new products! “Where innovation meets emotion,” is one of Hansgrohe’s 2019 phrases, once again highlighting its unique, in-depth commitment to the continued production of high-quality stock which still evokes an emotive response in the people. It may seem a tall order; but one of Hansgrohe’s core competencies has always been innovation.This year sees a large array of new and, frankly, thrilling products for the bathroom and kitchen. One of the most eagerly anticipated launches of this year is Hansgrohe’s RainTunes; a combination of water, sound, light, moving images and fragrances – all geared towards creating the most epic showering experience of all time. Actually, there are seven experiences to choose from, depending on your mood, the time of day, and just how annoying your work day has been. Practicality is always top of mind for the minds at Hansgrohe, which has led to the creation of Pontos®, a water management system which allows you to keep an eye on your water consumption, as well as adding a modicum of control by accessing Pontos from an app on your phone. This is huge for homes looking to minimise water waste and increase their quality of life! The brand new Rainfinity® shower head is the essence of sensuality. It is your getaway to complete relaxation. It comes with new jet types, innovative functions and an extraordinary design which set a new standard in modern bathroom functionality. In short, the new Rainfinity® shower head will envelop your body in a coat of a thousand sultry droplets. Of course, Hansgrohe are not so remiss as to forget about keeping the kids safe. The Croma® E and the Ecostat® E are the perfect solution for the modern family and ‘bath time’, delivering a combination of safety features, modern design and affordable pricing.But most excitingly, Hansgrohe have added Coolcontact and Safetystop to these products. Coolcontact prevents the thermostat mixer from getting too hot, which means your little ones won’t burn their paws as they play. Safetystop is a neat little mechanism which ensures that the water is not unreasonably hot when it comes out of the tap. Because a tub should be nothing but functional bliss, Hansgrohe is, once again, a step ahead. In line with its minimalist design and commitment to aesthetic pleasure, Hansgrohe has engineered the sBox tub hose coiling system, which means freedom of movement that is just as easily tucked away. Gone are the days of shower cords twisting and tangling, creating a cluttered and – let´s face it – frustrating bath tub experience. Now the shower cord slides seamlessly out of sight and out of mind, leaving youto focus on one thing and one thing only: rest and relaxation. This is only a brief overview of some of the amazing new products that Hansgrohe is coming out with. You’ll have to stay tuned for the rest, but no mistake… When it comes to Hansgrohe innovation, 2019 is going to be one for the books. With its brands AXOR and hansgrohe, the Hansgrohe Group, based in Schiltach/Southern Germany, enjoys a reputation as a leader in quality, innovation and design within the bath and kitchen industry. The Hansgrohe Group brings form and function to water with taps, showerheads and shower systems. The 116-year history of the company is marked by innovations such as the first hand-held shower with multiple spray types, the first pull-out kitchen tap, and the first wall bar to hold a hand-held shower. The company holds more than 17,000 active propriety rights. The Hansgrohe Group stands for long-lasting quality products. With 34 subsidiaries and 21 sales offices supplying products in more than 140 countries, the company is a reliable partner to its customers around the world. The Hansgrohe Group, its brands and products have won numerous awards, including more than 500 design prizes since 1974. Sustainable production of resource-conserving products is central to the company’s business activities around the globe. The products of the Hansgrohe Group are featured in projects around the world, such as the luxurious ocean liner Queen Mary 2, and the world’s tallest building, the Burj Khalifa in Dubai. The Group’s high-quality standards are ensured by five wholly-owned production facilities: two in Germany, one each in France, the United States and China. In 2016, the Hansgrohe Group generated a turnover of EUR 1.029 billion. It employs more than 4,800 people worldwide, about 60 percent of who work in Germany. 