The United States of America is the second-largest construction market worldwide. New York is currently the American hub for most new construction projects, and topped the list for construction expenditure in American cities in 2013 with US $8.5bn dollars in expenditure. Dallas was second with US $5.2bn in expenditures. The country’s iconic structures can be attributed the top construction companies driving the construction industry forward. The following are the top construction companies in USA Bechtel Group Inc. is a global engineering, construction, and project management company, currently the largest construction firm based in the U.S. The company also boasts to have made it into the top fifteen list of the world’s biggest construction contractors. Most of the companies in the rankings were Chinese and European contractors. Some of Bechtel’s largest projects include the construction of the Hoover Dam and the Dulles Airport Silver Line expansion (construction on a giant metrorail public transport system). 2.Fluor Corporation Fluor Corporation is one of the world’s largest engineering, procurement, construction, maintenance, and project management companies headquartered in Irvine, California, but has more than 50 company locations around the world. The company prides itself in having built the 800-mile Trans-Alaska Pipeline System in Alaska, which, at the time, was the world’s largest floating berth and the largest prefabricated pipeline parts. They also offer design and construction management services to BMW for the automaker’s first U.S. plant. Chicago Bridge & Iron Company (CB&I) is a large American conglomerate engineering, procurement and construction company that specializes in projects for oil and gas companies. They have major headquarters in The Woodlands, Texas, as well as in The Hague, Netherlands. CB&I boasts to be the original provider of the ClariCone solids contact clarifier for potable water and wastewater treatment in Albany, Georgia, as well as constructing the Yankee Stadium Subway Station in New York. Jacobs  is another leading construction company in the USA and a diverse provider of technical, professional and construction services, including all aspects of architecture, engineering and construction, operations and maintenance, as well as scientific and specialty consulting. Jacobs is based in Dallas, Texas and is structured around four lines of business; Aerospace & Technology, Buildings & Infrastructure, Industrial, and Petroleum & Chemicals. One of the major projects the company has embarked on is helping to construct NASA’s Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer-02 (AMS-02), which was installed on the International Space Station in 2011. Kiewit is one of North America’s largest and most respected construction and engineering organizations. It is an employee-owned company which operates through a network of offices and projects in the United States, Canada, and Australia. Headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska, Kiewit Corporation constructed the TD Ameritrade Park in Omaha, Nebraska, which serves as the home for the NCAA’s College World Series. They also lead construction on the Toyota Elephant Passage Exhibit at the Denver Zoo, which went on to receive LEED Platinum certification. Turner is a North America-based, international construction services company, and is a leading builder in diverse market segments. The Newyork city based company has completed over 10 billion dollars of construction on more than 1,500 projects each year. One of Turner’s largest projects was the construction of Yankee Stadium, a 1.3 million square foot major league baseball stadium, and home of the New York Yankees. The company built the original Madison Square Garden in 1962 as well, which is the home sports stadium to the New York Knicks NBA team and the New York Rangers NHL hockey team. Turner started a full-scale renovation of the facility in 2011 and finished in 2014. Skanska is a world leading project development and construction group, and in North America, Skanska, operating within construction, commercial property, and public private partnerships. Skanska lead the construction project for MetLife Stadium, home to the New York Jets and the New York Giants, that includes seating for 82,500 people. Other projects Skanska has completed include the World Trade Center Transportation Hub project, MetLife Stadium, and the Mater Dei Hospital. Poole Construction specializes in commercial, institutional, multi-family residential, renewable energy, heavy industrial, historical restoration, and civil construction sectors. Among their famous project include restoration and expansion of the UCLA Pauley Pavilion, home to UCLA’s men’s and women’s basketball teams. They also renovated and replaced certain parts of the Tempe Town Lake Downstream Dam in Tempe, Arizona. The company had to remove and replace the existing Bridgestone rubber dam bladders and install a new dam sprinkler system to cool the rubber bladders. Whiting-Turner Contracting, established in 1909 is one of the nation’s largest construction management and general contracting companies. The company is known for constructing Bachelor Enlisted Quarters for the U.S. Navy at Camp Lejeune in Jacksonville, North Carolina. The housing includes construction of four bachelor enlisted quarters for approximately 1,300 soldiers with 650 bedrooms. Each barrack is a four-story, load-bearing, masonry building with an exterior corridor-style construction, and is approximately 72,000 square feet in size. They also constructed The Intimidator 305 roller coaster at Kings Dominion amusement park in Doswell, Virginia, which stands at 305 feet tall and reaches top speeds of 91 miles per hour. It’s the second Giga Coaster to be built in North America. KBR is an American engineering, procurement, and Construction Company, and formerly a subsidiary of Halliburton. They are located in Houston, Texas. Some of KBR’s biggest projects include the construction of Guantanamo Bay, a United States military prison located within Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, which fronts on Guantánamo Bay in Cuba. KBR has also received many contracts with the U.S. military, including during World War II, the Vietnam War, and the Iraq War.