Dr light was established in the 1950s and has to date been the only independent research and development, design, production and marketing its own brand of energy saving tech enterprise. The company has an “Energy to create value and share bright life” concept which guides them in incorporating new generation of Green LED colunms included in research and development and production plan. The company provides flood lights, led tube series, tube fittings, led panel light, led bulb, led cornlight, led ceiling light, led ceiling lamp, led downlight, led high bay, led streetlight. Dr. Light adhering to the “Energy to create value and share bright life” concept, ideal life advocate green ecology, energy saving undertake social responsibility and adherence to the quality first. The company has core intellectual property, seven invention patents, 51 utility model and 61 design patents. Many people are still confused about the cost benefits of LED Lighting. All they see is the higher cost price compared to CFL, Halogen and other types of lighting and feel that it is too expensive. What people don’t understand is that LED’s are a LOT cheaper to operate and own. They also last a lot longer so save you money on electricity and replacement bulbs as well for a longer period of time. Not only does the company calculate their customers’ savings but also provide the customers with a detailed plan of action to reduce their bill. The company also provides the customers with exact solution and combination or products that suite your situation. From downlights to tubes and fitting, panel lights, highbays and ceiling lamps. The company has the most comprehensive range of LED products. Supply and Fit. While most LED dealers mistakenly measure power savings by published bulb wattage, the company quantifies true electrical consumption and savings directly at the socket. By accurately measuring and reporting the light output of its fixtures, Dr Lights are able to ensure energy savings for our clients, and provide the best possible solution for your business.