Move aligns with provincial expansion strategy as company executives aim to enhance leadership, visibility and product offerings to meet increasing customer demands Daikin, the leading global innovator and provider of advanced, high-quality air conditioning, heating, ventilation and refrigeration (HVAC-R) products and solutions for residential, commercial and industrial applications; has relocated the head office for the company’s Middle East and Africa Division, in line with plans to support growth and expand throughout the region. Located in JAFZA-Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), the facility will be the base of operations for 250 staff members from sales & operational functions; as Daikin aims to maintain their position as regional market leader, further strengthen the leadership, visibility and product offerings for the entire MEA region, and to anticipate the future needs of customers. The new facility is situated on 22,000 sqm of land, with the building and warehouse amounting to 7,500 sqm, and combines the Training Academy, AHU Factory and flagship experience center. The office also features an array of new technological HVAC innovations including a chiller system, smart VRV system, along with AHU, FCU & BMS systems. Tuna Gulenc, Vice President-Sales at Daikin MEA, said: “The opening of this brand-new facility reaffirms our commitment for long-term business expansion, and emphasizes to the market that we believe in both the growth potential of the MEA region and vision of the UAE.” In the last 13 years since Daikin’s first office was established in the emirate, the business has grown from USD 30 million to exceed USD 300 million in the MEA region. Since then the small office has grown to become a full fledge MEA Headquarters with sales, service, logistics and manufacturing operations. The business has been expanded by establishing companies in the UAE, KSA and Egypt while developing an effective and proficient sales network across the MEA region.  Daikin MEA has since evolved to employ more than 400 people from just 10 originally. He continued: “Daikin MEA has grown to become the market leader in the region, and this has been made possible by the dedication and commitment demonstrated by our trusted employees and partners on a daily basis over a long period of time. Daikin believes in continuous development once we enter a market. We are building a company that will last one hundred years and more to serve our customers, employ and train more colleagues, and further contribute to our society, environment and planet. Our responsibility is to promote efficient systems to save energy through the various products and solutions, as well as to create careers and job openings in each country we operate in. The launch of the new facility is the latest step of this project and we look ahead to the coming years with strong desire, faith in the potential of the region and our company. We will continue to execute our strategic plans and actions accordingly as we pursue our dream in this region.” Daikin Industries is a global leader in developing and manufacturing advanced, high-quality air conditioning, heating, ventilation and refrigeration products (HVAC-R) and solutions for residential, commercial and industrial applications. Founded in Japan in 1924, the company strives to combine expertise and experience to create new innovative technologies by anticipating the future requirements of customers and society. Daikin has evolved over nine decades to employ 76,000 people with 90 production bases and presence in 150 countries worldwide. Daikin Middle East & Africa promotes and provides aftermarket support for a full range of air conditioning equipment and systems in All GCC, Middle East and Africa regions. 