The Federal government of Nigeria is set to cooperate with communities in Ebonyi State to develop an airport and a stadium in the area. The proposed International Airport will be developed in Ezza area. Amuzor, Orieuzor, Umuezeokaoha and Umuohara communities in Ezza South and Ezza North council areas whose land will be affected by the airport project have given the government the go-ahead to locate it in their area. “The decision of the state government to site the airport in Ezza clan is a welcomed development which the communities are happy about to see development coming in their environs,” said Traditional Ruler, Eze Charles Mkpuma from Ezza South. Also Read:Egypt opens new terminal 2 at Hurghada International Airport On the other hand, the Olympic Stadium which would be constructed at the Centenary City, the communities involved are Agbaja-Nnuhu and Enyima-agu in Abakaliki council area and they have also given their blessing for the project. Governor David Umahi, of Ebonyi State announced that construction of the airport will commence simultaneously with the enumeration of properties and persons likely to be displaced. He affirmed that affected persons who may be displaced will be compensated. “The airport is one of the most important programmes for this state. Yes, we have the Enugu airport but we are closer to Abia; quite a lot of us are closer to Abia State. This airport is not for prestige. It is for business. We believe that if we build the airport, we will have more customers than Enugu Airport and this is very important. And the location of the airport is about 70 minutes from Enugu airport. Moreover, we are building for tomorrow,” explained the governor. “Work will be on while enumeration would be going on to compile the list of those to be compensated. We will within the limit of our resources find a way to resettle them”, Umahi added. The chairman of Ishielu Local Government Area, Mr. Henry Sunday Eze applauded Governor David Umahi for his commitment towards the development of the state, adding that with the construction of an Airport and Olympic Stadium in the state, Ebonyi will open up for more accelerated economic development and prosperity.