The Geomash Company is one of leading producers in Russia on production of the drilling rigs capable to provide different technologies of drilling. Production of drilling equipment — is the traditional activity field of the company. “Geomash-Vladimir” – the manufacturing company, producing drilling equipment under the trademark “Geomash” and also auxiliary tools of various standard sizes. “Geomash-Vladimir” renders services in guarantee and post-guarantee maintenance of drilling equipment “Geomash”, urgent repair of equipment. The company produces: self-propelled hydroficated UGB drilling rig and compact drilling rigs BBU 000 “Openok”, BBU 001 “Openok-S” used for drilling of engineering-geological, geological prospecting, hydrogeological and special technical wells. In 2014 LLC Geomash-Vladimir started production of the off-road transport vehicle GTM-0.8. The production base of “Geomash-Vladimir” is equipped with the modern hi-tech metal-cutting equipment of import production allowing carrying out various tasks of metal work. The production base of JSC Geomash includes: mechanical, assembly, forge and foundry, shop of metalwork, development, tools, repair and transport shop. The Quality Management System (QMS) of JSC Geomash conforms to the ISO 9001:2008 standard concerning design and production of mobile drilling rigs, spare parts and boring tools for them. The company produces drilling rigs PBU-2, LBU-50, AZA-3, USh-2T4, drilling rigs of the UBV family, BKM crane drilling machines. The unique aspects of Geomash equipment compared to their competitors is that their equipment are reliable, and durable, and simplicity of operation without too deep knowledge of operating drilling machines, Geomash equipment can work in any environment. The basic working approach of “Geomash” Construction Design bureau is to create effective and safe drill rigs for tasks solution in the field of drilling. Detailed knowledge of drilling technological process and problems, which our customers face in the drilling process, give us today a possibility to create drill rigs which are at most adapted for geological conditions and tasks being solved by our customers. “Geomash” offers high possibilities for cooperation to the customers: consultations, complex deliveries of serial drill rigs with drilling tools as a unit, equipment development according to the customers’ preliminary specification, different variants of purchase (by installments, leasing, payment by security papers) and delivery of the equipment. The Geomash company has been successfully operating in the market for drilling equipment for more than a hundred years, and for more than 80 years our drilling equipment has been used in Russia. The priority of Geomash is the development and production of drilling equipment for various applications, such as: Geomash equipment meets all modern requirements of manufacturing companies. Based on the tasks, you can choose specialized equipment from a wide range. Today the company has more than 1000 employees; production sites are located in the cities of Shchigra and Zheleznogorsk of Kursk region, Vladimir, Nordkhauzen (Germany). Quality of production is enhanced, new production technologies are implemented, and production equipment is upgraded.