Smart-Builder’s suite of glass design modules allow you to take site measurements and turn them into accurately priced quotes, 3D drawings and detailed installation reports for your installers, as well as precise drawings for your glass processor. When you enter site measurements in the software, it calculates glass, cutouts and deductions for you. Smart-Design takes your deductions for silicone, hinges, brackets, seals and other hardware, and it combines them with your hardware placement rules to produce: Smart-Design is configured to support the hardware you already use. Their team will take your experts’ knowledge and apply it to the design modules so anyone in your business will be able to quote showers, shop fronts, splash backs and balustrades with ease. Smart-Shopfront is a complete design system for glass shopfronts and internal partitions. As you drag new panels into position, change measurements or alter your hardware selection, Smart-Shopfront automatically recalculates: Smart-Shopfront also produces an installation report for your installers and detailed cutting instructions for any channel or rail. Generate beautiful quotes and beat the competition. Smart-Splashback can follow the outlines of cupboards, windows and rangehoods, and you can simply drag and drop cutouts for power points or taps directly onto your design. It will calculate millimeter perfect; designs along with a full color 3D image, sure to impress your customers. The Smart-Toolbox has been purposely built for the glass industry and it understands how glaziers price and quote jobs better than any other software on the market. Integration with accounting and production software helps you streamline operations and eliminate double entry. Smart-Toolbox can quote for any glass or glazing job that you need, including showers, shopfronts, railings, mirrors and window replacements. Generate and easily track orders. Create detailed purchase orders for your jobs, with the click of a button. You can create multiple purchase orders per job, track what’s due and receive inwards goods. Easily keep on top of your orders and pending projects. Send your glass drawings as accurate PDF or DXF files, or export directly to popular production systems. The scheduling screen allows anyone in your team to see what is going on and to easily communicate changes with installers and customers. Built-in integration with Office 365 and Google Calendar. Send and update appointments directly to your installers’ phones. The built-in job diary, with notes, status updates and site photos, means anyone in your company can see what is going on with your jobs. Using the job diary, you will be able to: Smart-Toolbox allows you to store your job documents and photos in the cloud with Dropbox, OneDrive and Google Drive integration. The dedicated dashboard allows your team to customize their widgets to monitor key metrics relating to their role. For example, your accountant may have ‘Jobs Ready to Invoice’ at the top of their dashboard, whereas the business owner has ‘Quotes Won’ and ‘Quotes Lost’ for the month. See at a glance: Once the job is done, it is easy to create invoices from the work order. You can fully invoice a job, with the click of a button, or break it down and invoice in stages. Smart-Toolbox also integrates with many popular accounting solutions: Smart-Toolbox, with the click of a button