The Kwara State Government in Nigeria has opened talks with the African Development Bank (AfDB) on potential areas of partnership, including: construction of roads, energy, agro-processing and small and medium enterprises with a special focus on women empowerment. The potential partnership is the outcome of a meeting between Kwara Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq and an AfDB team in Abuja. According to a statement signed by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary Rafiu Ajakaye, the governor took that opportunity to spell out the priorities of his administration. Infrastructure development was at the fore-front of these priorities. He also explained steps he has taken to improve the priority areas by citing recent multi-million dollars counterpart funds he released to access various development funds. The governor also cited his administration’s commitment to the growth of agribusiness and agro-processing. “We have made some significant investments in these two areas including the US $350m sugar refinery being constructed by the BUA group,” he said. Also Read:Construction of the Second Niger Bridge project in Nigeria on track According to the statement, Kwara State is also eyeing a partnership with the AfDB for the construction of Kosubosu-Lafiagi road. There will also be further talks on how Kwara can benefit from AfDB’s initiatives like the US $50m facility to support SMEs and women-owned businesses, US $200m project for national electrification and transmission lines; and AfDB agro-industrial development through its Special Agro -Industrial Processing Zone being pursued with some Chinese investors, among others. A team of experts from the AfDB is expected in Kwara later in the year to identify projects in the priority areas. Apparently the AfDB has also invited the governor to attend the business-to-business (B2B) meetings with some Chinese investors along with some other governors in Abuja on August 7th this year; setting the ground for future engagements between the Kwara State government, AfDB and other investors.  