The self-adhesive Effisus Easy repair Membrane is the ideal solution for sealing joints on virtually all types of metal roofs or facades. It creates a waterproof, moisture-proof, and airtight barrier, with no additional sealing required. The active sealing technology adhesive ensures superb adhesion to virtually any type of metal. Active sealants technology The Effisus Easy repair Membrane uses an innovative technology with active sealants. This technology uses sealants that don’t have double connections between their carbon atoms, which results in an extremely stable molecular structure, which is resistant to light, ozone, and heat. Through the use of a special primer, this adhesive “melts” into the surface to which it is applied. This creates an instant bonding to most known materials used in construction. It can be applied in environments with temperatures from -56ºC up to +93ºC. Solution Benefits Supply information Effisus Easyrepair Membranes – Rolls of 15.2m length and a range of 50 to 1000mm width with different colors. Effisus Bond FT Tape is the ideal solution for permanently sealing flashing details on metal roofs of any type, saving time and labor – with a superior performance that will last as long as your roof. Its unique elongation capacity and flexibility guarantees that it can be formed to fit irregular shapes and surfaces, with no need for mechanical fastening, torch, or extra adhesives.  Effisus Bond FT Tape consists of an uncured EPDM membrane that has been laminated to an EPDM-based pressure-sensitive tape adhesive, integrating a proven peel & stick technology. After being cured, the tape is extremely resistant to moisture, UV, temperature changes, and structural movements. Superior Formability Capacity Exceptional Performance Typical Applications Solution Benefits Effisus Everyday Seal XTRA is a tear-resistant, UV-resistant, long-lasting, and water-resistant aluminum butyl rubber tape with very high tack and superior ageing resistance. It is used for masking applications and for sealing insulation, pipework, and ducts in HVAC applications. The tape provides a reliable sealing of metals, wood, and plastics, as well as masonry and clean concrete surfaces. Effisus Everyday Seal XTRA tape Typical Applications Solution Benefits Effisus provides excellence in weatherproofing solutions for the building envelope construction segment, maximizing building performance and its lifetime. Effisus solutions have a key focus on optimizing to the needs of each project, supported by extensive consulting services. They offer a wide range of solutions and systems for roofs and facades. Production based in the USA and Europe and Sales and Marketing structures in Europe. The main logistics are based in Europe, Africa and Middle East. The company aims to leverage strong partnerships in order to achieve efficient sustainability from start to finish. The result of such partnerships is the presence of Effisus in different continents, and its participation in globally renowned projects.