Peikko is chosen as a supplier for a significant expansion project in terminal 2 of Helsinki Airport, which is Finland’s biggest airport. The order comprises 4.2 kilometers of DELTABEAM® Composite Beams. Peikko will also produce and deliver 2,000 tons of other steel structures for the project and will also be responsible for component installation. Peikko’s deliveries for the project will start in fall 2019 and the installation work will continue until August 2020. The expansion of terminal 2 is part of the investment project of the airport company Finavia. The project will enable a smooth travel experience at Helsinki Airport for 30 million passengers annually. The expansion area of the terminal is altogether 103,000 m2. The project doubles the amount of bridge gates for wide-body aircraft and allows for 4,800 new parking places and 450,000 m2 of renovated apron. The total investment of Finavia is going to exceed EUR 1 billion. The airport expansion will be finalized by 2022. The main contractor of the project is SRV, and Ramboll Oy is responsible for the structural design. HKP Architects and ALA Architects are jointly responsible for the architectural design of the project. “We are proud to deliver our DELTABEAM® Slim Floor Structure for the expansion project of Helsinki Airport terminal 2, being one of the most important projects in Finland currently. It is also the biggest single project of Peikko‘s history. Our composite structure offered a viable solution for the project. On the market there is a demand for reliable and holistic solution providers,” says Topi Paananen, CEO of Peikko Group Corporation. DELTABEAM®is Peikko’s composite slim-floor system for multi-story buildings of any kind. It allows flexibility for layout changes throughout the service life of the building and enables easy HVAC installations. With the use of DELTABEAM® the depth of the whole structure can be reduced, which means savings in construction time and costs as well as in heating and cooling costs. DELTABEAM® enables different kinds of cantilevers and architecturally challenging façade solutions without the use of in-situ casting. Peikko Group Corporation is a leading global supplier of slim floor structures and connection technology for precast and cast-in-situ applications. Peikko’s innovative solutions offer a faster, safer, and more efficient way to design and build. Peikko has sales offices in over 30 countries in Asia-Pacific, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, and North America, with certified manufacturing operations in ten countries. Peikko generated a turnover of EUR 225 million in 2018. Peikko is a family-owned and managed company that employs over 1,800 professionals. Peikko was founded in 1965 and is headquartered in Lahti. Peikko has sales office in Johannesburg, South Africa. The sales office concentrates on serving customers in South Africa and its immediate neighboring countries; areas with strong traditions in precast construction. Peikko’s first target is to provide precast and cast-in-situ concrete connections in the area. Previously Peikko’s sales activities in South Africa have been operated by its sales office in the UK. The first team member of Peikko South Africa, Mr. Daniel Petrov, has solid experience with the South African construction industry, especially with the precast sector. He also has a deep understanding of Peikko’s products, having acted as Peikko’s client in multiple projects.