A pair of Cummins QSK95 engines is helping power expansion projects at the Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority (GPHA). GPHA is the national port authority of Ghana, responsible for the governance, maintenance, and operation of the country’s ports. These ports have seen a dramatic increase in total cargo traffic, transit cargo, and container traffic, which has prompted expansion projects. To increase its handling capacity, a major expansion and infrastructure upgrade will require bigger vessels and higher capacity engines. The addition of three RAstar 3300 series tugs is currently on order, and will be delivered end 2019. The Turkey- based Torgem Shipyard is constructing the new ship-docking tugs. Torgem Shipyard has been at the forefront of modern ship construction, serving as the construction site for over 100 new building projects. The facility is equipped to handle the building, repair, maintenance, and conversion of a wide range of vessels, including chemical tankers, cargo ships, tugboats and mega-yachts. Each of the new tugs will be powered by a pair of Cummins QSK95 engines. Once built, the three custom- designed tugs will enter service with the GPHA on the west coast of Africa, where shipping volumes are increasing, creating a requirement for powerful modern tugboats. They will be equipped to fulfil a multitude of tasks for the GPHA, including but not limited to ship-assist, fire-fighting, and pollution response. Leaders from GPHA and Torgem Shipyard recently traveled to visit Cummins facilities in Indiana in the US. Their visit included stops at Walesboro for a full-day QSK95 marine training, a visit to the History & Restoration Center (HRC) in Columbus, and meetings with Cummins senior leaders in the Indianapolis DBUHQ. The group toured the Seymour Engine Plant (SEP) and even experienced a witness test of the QSK95. In addition, they had the chance to see a test cell with a QSK95 engine running at the Cummins Technical Center (CTC). “The witness test boosts our confidence in Cummins. Once you see it tested, you have confidence it will perform to the desired level,” Comander Stephen Abane Ayeo of GPHA explained. “We know Cummins. They’re durable, economical, and strong, and provide good maintenance support. We’ve been a partner for over 30 years.” Cummins Inc., a global technology leader, is a corporation of complementary business segments that designs, manufactures, distributes and services a broad portfolio of power solutions. The company’s products range from diesel and natural gas engines to hybrid and electric platforms, as well as related technologies, including transmissions, battery systems, fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions, and power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana (U.S.), since its founding in 1919, Cummins employs approximately 62,600 people committed to powering a more prosperous world through three global corporate responsibility priorities critical to healthy communities: education, environment and equality of opportunity. Cummins serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of approximately 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations, and over 7,600 dealer locations. In 2018, the company earned about $2.1 billion on sales of $23.8 billion. See how Cummins is powering a world that’s Always On by accessing news releases and more information at https://www.cummins.com/always-on . Follow Cummins on Twitter at www.twitter.com/cummins and on YouTube at www.youtube.com/cumminsinc