Egypt is set to receive a new hotel after Rixos Hotels signed a deal with Eastern Company for Investment and Touristic Development to take over an existing property and re-launch it to Rixon’s largest all inclusive resort. “We are delighted to partner with the Eastern Company for Investment and Touristic Development to launch this flagship project, which will set a new benchmark for luxury all-inclusive all-exclusive resorts in Egypt and the wider Middle East,” said Fettah Tamince, Founder and Chairman of Rixos Hotels. Also Read:Chinese investors to construct US $8.2m Airport Hotel in Kenya The development will sit on Egypt’s Red Sea Riviera. It will be a 1,636-key mega resort with world-class leisure, sports and entertainment facilities for which the Rixos brand is globally renowned. The development will involve individual villas, an extensive indoor and outdoor spa, fitness facilities, kids clubs, a water park, beach lounge, large conference centre, vast F&B wide-ranging F&B options and an expansive entertainment area with an amphitheater. Renovation works will be carried out in two phases each spanning a year. Phase one includes addition of wings and facilities to uplift the hotel in line with Rixos brand standards. Upon completion the first phase will feature 815 keys including villas, 12 F&B outlets, a beach lounge, 1,500 sqm of meeting space, a spa and wellness area covering 2,400 sqm, multiple pools, a small aqua park, kids’ clubs and expansive outdoor areas for fitness and entertainment programmes. Phase two of the mega project will include construction of a 23,000-sqm water park, as well as upgrades to the remaining hotel inventory. The development upon completion scheduled in 2020, will be re branded ‘Rixos Hurghada Makadi Bay’. The stand-out property will boast a stunning location in a secluded bay on the Red Sea, just south of Hurghada – a global hotspot for scuba diving, family getaways and golf breaks. It is expected to become the preferred destination for discerning travellers and corporate group business from key source markets such as Europe and the CIS. Established in 2000, Rixos Hotels is a Turkey-based luxury brand with a global portfolio of 25 hotels in 7 countries, 17 of which are operated as waterfront resorts and welcomes more than 1 million guest annually. The chain embodies traditional Turkish hospitality and features unique health treatment clubs and entertainment experiences for guests of all ages. 