CoreCivils,  a leader in the manufacture and installation of a comprehensive range of high quality T, Y ,I and M-type bridge beams, in addition to barriers and parapets, has helped Johannesburg Roads Agency (JRA) to accelerate the construction of a pedestrian bridge in Kaalfontein, Gauteng by use of its unique precast-concrete systems. The system comprises of conventionally reinforced precast-concrete beams and hollow- core slabs that are supported by two in-situ concrete piers. The company proposed the use of this hollow-core slabs instead of rib-and-block slabs between the precast-concrete beams to provide a faster and more accurate means of constructing the superstructure. These changes to the initial plan were accepted by the design engineer, BMK Consulting Engineers, which is also overseeing the implementation of the US $853,830 project on behalf of the JRA. Jaco de Bruin, the managing director of CoreCivils, said that it took the company less than 24 hours on site to install the precast- concrete beams and the hollow-core slabs. “The hollow-core slabs were manufactured and cut into the preferred size at our factory so that they could be placed directly on top of the precast-concrete beams. This eradicated the need to first install extensive propping before being able to cast the rib-and-block slabs.” De Bruin says. The company then shipped the precast-concrete elements to the site and lifted them directly from the truck trailers using a mobile crane. Axton Matrix was able to commence working on the remaining portion of the structure just after CoreCivils had installed the hollow-core slabs. The 100 m-long by 3.5 m-wide bridge that overpasses a stream passing through this large community, is expected to improve mobility by providing a direct connection between Flashlight Fish and Trout Fish Streets, and also it will be used by authorities for evacuation of residents during flood conditions. CoreCivils is also working with Axton Matrix on the construction of another similar pedestrian bridge in Diepsloot, Gauteng. 