Construction of world’s first smart mini city dubbed Bleutech Park in Las Vegas, USA is set to commence in December this year and end in six years’ time at a cost of approximately US$ 7.5bn. Funded by a real estate investment trust called Bleutech Park Properties Inc., the development will feature; offices, retail spaces, ultra-luxury residential units, hotel, and entertainment facilities as well as workforce housing for people who will be serving the community including nurses, teachers, firemen, police officers etc. Aerial construction plus unmanned aerial systems to aid in hard-to-reach or unsafe places shall be utilized in the making of Bleutech Park Las Vegas. Construction workers will don wearable technology, particularly in heavy lifting and repetition while robotics and biometrics will inform edge cutting security system in a bid to improve jobsite safety and employee’s health. Also Read:World’s largest entertainment city to open to the public in 2022 Bleutech Park Properties, Inc., CTIO, Bertrand Dano said that they believe in the wake of digitization and robotics in construction as this will increase productivity and efficiency. Bleutech Park Properties is partnering with construction contractor Martin-Harris Construction and technology leader Cisco. The mini-digital city will operate on renewable energy sources including solar, wind, water and kinetic energy. This means that it will be 100% grid-independent. To achieve this, the park will feature net-zero buildings that comprise of energy-generating and breathable materials i.e. its buildings façades will be equipped with photovoltaic glass which shall be converting light into electricity, while its flooring shall take advantage of the energy produced by people during movements. The city’s state of the art buildings will be connected to supertrees that promise to reduce imported water consumption by 95% and also improve biodiversity. The development will also boast of on-site water purification and waste treatment in addition to localized air cleaning. Robotics will be an essential part of the technology ecosystem providing 365/24/7 security using biometrics and other cutting edge technologies, adding an unsurpassed level of security in real-time, to both residents and visitors.   