Ghana is set to start construction of phase II of the Tamale Airport. This is after president, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo cut the sod to launch the project. The project, estimated to cost US $70m is being financed by UK Export Finance facility and KfW IPEX-Bank of Germany. President Akufo affirmed that advance mobilization has been processed for payment to the contractors. Works include construction of a modern, new International terminal building together with a multi-purpose Hajj facility, and other ancillary facilities. The project will encompass the following elements design for the scope of works; construction of a modular airport terminal building of approximately 5,000 square metres, which is expandable in the future; construction of a Hajj facility of approximately 1,000m2; construction of a single carriageway access road; construction of landside and airside infrastructure adapted to the terminal size; and construction of water, power and sewerage infrastructure deemed necessary for normal operations. Also Read:Ghana’s Kotoka International Airport to commence expansion works The Tamale International Airport, when completed, will also serve as a complement to the Accra Kotoka International Airport. According to the president, the airport will provide the needed impetus for increased economic and trading activities, and will reinforce the status of Tamale as a sub-Saharan hub for flights to and from neighbouring West African countries and the Sahel Region. Significantly, it is also expected that the completion of the project will make Tamale the centre of Hajj-related activities in the country, and will facilitate seamless travels from Ghana directly to Saudi Arabia for the pilgrimage to Mecca. The project is expected to be completed in 30 months As part of Government’s resolve to increase domestic aviation activities, the President indicated that a host of other projects are on-going, and these include Phases 2 and 3 of Kumasi Airport, and the rehabilitation of Sunyani Airport.