Road infrastructure for Phase II Lesotho Highlands Water Project has commenced. The Lesotho Highlands Development Authority (LHDA) announced the report and said that they have awarded two separate contracts for the construction of the Polihali Western Access Road (PWAR) (West and East) Joint Venture and Rumdel/AC JV respectively. Phase II of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project builds on the successful completion of Phase I in 2003. It delivers water to the Gauteng region of South Africa and utilizes the water delivery system to generate hydro-electricity for Lesotho. Phase II will increase the current water supply rate of 780 million cubic metres per annum incrementally to more than 1,270 million cubic metres per annum. Also Read:Construction of Bolga-Bawku Road to be completed in 2020 LHDA pointed out that the roads are fifth and sixth of approximately a dozen advanced infrastructure contracts for the LHWP. Construction work for PWAR is expected to be completed by 11 June 2021 while PWAR East works which commenced on 23 July 2019 are expected to be completed by 22 June 2021. The PWAR Western section is a 21.44km long road between Ha Seshote and Semenanyane River while the Eastern section is a 32.86km long road between Semenanyane River and the Polihali Dam site. The PWAR will be constructed into an engineered standard, two-lane surfaced road with surfaced shoulders and passing lanes. Some sections of the road follow an existing gravel track that will be upgraded to an engineered surfaced road. Other sections of the road follow a new route to improve the vertical and horizontal alignments. There will also be construction of three new bridges including a new bridge at the Matsoku River, stormwater drainage system and road ancillaries also form part of the PWA road construction works. “The quality roads constructed under Phase II will not only provide access to the Polihali Dam construction site but will also significantly influence sustainable economic growth through tourism and industrial development,” said Tente Tente, acting CE of the LHDA.  