With evidence of the longevity and potential of its products on display in infrastructure across southern Africa, AfriSam’s presence is widespread. Notably with a legacy that goes back 85 years, this leading construction materials supplier has contributed to many iconic projects. These include the Carlton Centre in the Johannesburg CBD, the Nelson Mandela Bridge, the Lesotho Highlands Water Project, numerous new developments in Sandton (including the tallest building on the continent, The Leonardo) and the Zeitz MOCAA in the V&A Waterfront in Cape Town. Although the company has undergone changes in shareholding and names during its 85 year existence, AfriSam has remained true to its formula according to Rob Wessels acting chief executive officer and Richard Times, sales and marketing executive. This, they concur, has been pivotal to AfriSam’s success, despite economic cycles experienced by the construction industry. The past five to six years have been particularly difficult for the construction industry (a key customer segment for AfriSam) and companies operating in the construction sector. Wessels says AfriSam has had to “right-size the business” and adapt where necessary to remain competitive as well as continue to be the supplier of choice. “Business performance in tough times comes through shifting and broadening our customer base, and by continuing to focus on the quality of our product, technical advice and the relationships we have with our customers,” he says. “AfriSam has a reputation for providing quality product and expertise, and getting things right, and we’re determined to maintain this.” Among the initiatives AfriSam undertakes to promote quality within the industry is its anchor sponsor of the Concrete Society of Southern Africa’s Fulton Awards. This, Tomes says, is in line with the company’s mission of “creating concrete possibilities by pushing the boundaries of concrete products, both in terms of sustainability and technical performance”. AfriSam is also the co-founder of the AfriSam-SAIA Award for Sustainable Architecture + Innovation, which recognise the importance of ‘green’ building and acknowledges the contributions made by forward-thinking industry players towards bringing sustainable innovation to human living environments.