Ghana has commissioned a US $52m, 160-bed Upper West Regional Hospital. Construction of the facility, which started in 2014, was financed by Euroget-De Invest, an Egyptian company. Commissioning the project, President Akufo Addo acknowledged the importance of project continuity as this was the reason why Ghana is an attractive destination for investors. Also read:Kenya to construct level four hospital in Nyeri County According to the Minister for Health, Mr. Kwaku Agyemeng-Manu, the hospital was designed with several departments including an administration, Out Patient Department, physiotherapy unit, radiology laboratory, medical justice production unit, maternal and children’s health unit, mortuary, staff dining, maintenance department, power station and 20 staff housing unit. “The hospital has also been equipped with modern medical equipment including X-Ray machines, CT Scan, ultrasound and fully equipped operation theatre among others.” he added. The Upper West Regional Hospital is part of the “Ghana Hospital Project” awarded by the Government of Ghana, in 2008. The Ghana Hospital Project involves the design, construction and equipping of one Military Hospital, two Regional Hospitals, and six District Hospitals in Ghana, at a project cost of US $339m. This project has passed through the hands of four successive presidents of Ghana. It was initiated and begun under the 2nd President of the 4th Republic, His Excellency John Agyekum Kufuor; it was continued by his successor, His Excellency the late John Evans Atta-Mills; and his successor, His Excellency John Dramani Mahama; and it has been commissioned the 5th President of the 4th Republic. Other hospitals under the project include: the 500-Kumasi Military Hospital; the 100-bed Madina District Hospital, the 60-bed Tepa District Hospital, the 60-bed Twifo Praso District Hospital, the 60-bed Konongo District Hospital Project, the 60-bed Salaga District Hospital, the 60-bed Nsawkaw District Hospital and the 250-bed Kumasi Sewua Regional Hospital.