Africa as a market is developing quite fast. As the construction market is developing fast there is also a higher need for professional CAD programs and industry CAD add-ons. Most of the new technologies being used in Africa in regards to construction software involve moving more capabilities to site workers through mobile technology. Increase smartphone and tablet usage is enabling construction workers to capture, organize and track project information directly from site. ArCADiasoft has been developing specialized software for the  AEC industry for over twenty years but  has only entered the African market last year and have already appointed over twenty re sellers all over Africa. Africa has become an increasingly important market for them since they have secured several projects. Their proprietary programs are useful solutions in the everyday work of an architect or engineer, simple and intuitive, thought out in the smallest detail, while at the same time technically based on the latest cutting edge technology. ArCADiasoft offers a very high quality and cost effective way to enter the BIM world of design with a perpetual license. According to Richard Zins the Head of International Sales, they have an excellent traditional CAD program which has been expanded with some architectural features, shortcuts and automation. On top of this program we have over twenty industry specific modules which allow you to operate within one ArCADia BIM environment. The system enables continuous data exchange between all industry modules in order to, amongst other things, update documents about the latest changes made by designers working on a joint project or, for example, to detect collisions. These modules are all the installations within a building design such as Electricity, Water, Sewage, Heating, Telecommunications and Gas as well as Construction modules for reinforced concrete and static calculations. Here is a list of benefits of using their software: Cooperation with BIM applications by downloading underlays from IFC, RVT, RFA files Built-in DWG converter to DWG 2018 format, automatic conversion to DWG 2013, without DWG 2018 format saving. Model Maker Systems was registered as a company to develop and sell software in August 1989. This means 2019 is a very special year for them because they are still going strong while many developers in the same field from the 1980’s don’t exist anymore. According to Carel Viljoen, the CEO, further development and a policy of providing affordable software with outstanding support, helped them become one of the leading suppliers of software over the years. “We now have nearly 4000 companies spread over 83 countries using our software. Some of these companies are leaders in their field and of the larger ones around,” he adds. The software consist of: Point Cloud Viewer was developed with the aim to convert point cloud data into more manageable data for conventional DTM software like Model Maker. We believe our products are affordable and with its user friendly and easy presentation it provides for a highly productive tool in its field of application. One of the main benefits users have is our commitment to exceptional support and further development to accommodate the latest technologies in hardware and software available. “During 2018 we embarked on a new development project that we believe will keep Model Maker Systems going for the next 30 years or more. We will probably start to test this with users early in 2020. This new product will combine our knowledge and experience of the last 30 years in one single package with functionality from all our existing products,” affirms Mr. Viljoen. Sitemate’s software platform Dashpivot makes it easy for construction companies to transition away from time-consuming and manual processes by digitising and streamlining how they capture, organise and track work with a single system. The advantage of Dashpivot over traditional documents like word docs, spreadsheets and PDFs is that Dashpivot documents are entirely digital. This eliminates the need to convert information between fragmented tools, and drastically reduces the time spent manually formatting documents. The data being collected using Dashpivot is standardised and automated through the entire information chain. The advantage of Dashpivot over other tools and softwares is that Dashpivot is flexible and completely customisable. Construction companies using Dashpivot can easily convert their current standard operating procedures into a digital format to create a fully integrated information management system (IMS) – which provides the benefits of: Dashpivot has been used in different countries which include: South Africa, Lesotho, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Tanzania, Kenya, Nigeria, Ghana, Sierra Leone, Egypt and Algeria. Founded in 1989, ACCA has established a strong position in developing software solutions for the architectural,engineering and construction industries well known for ease of use, its highly creative and practical approach, its strong attitude for innovation and the ability to provide adequate answers to the growing needs of professionals. In 25 years of activity, ACCA has developed solutions for a multitude of construction industry needs: architectural design, bills of quantities, structural analysis, maintenance plans and facility management, health and safety, energy efficiency, acoustics, technical systems engineering, fire prevention, renewable energy, technical studies and office management, survey management, and many more. Over 90 different solutions produced by a single company for the construction sector… A know-how that makes ACCA a unique software company with the unique ability to combine extreme simplicity and extraordinary design tools to seamlessly integrate with other ACCA software solutions such as for structural engineering and calculations, bill of quantities, energy performance, health and safety, facility management, technical systems and plant engineering. Wood Designer offers a way to design both furniture and stairs using the woodwork design software solutions Polyboard and StairDesigner respectively. Instead of working like CAD software (where you draw your design out on the computer – very slow), this software is parametric. You put in basic dimensions then quickly add design elements like shelves, doors, drawers, or string board, newel posts and handrails. All the manufacturing output – cut lists, plans and CNC files – are immediately available. Plus you have instant access to 3D visuals and costs to close the sale with your prospects. Supporting Polyboard and StairDesigner is OptiCut and OptiNest which optimize the cutting of the parts to minimize material waste and cut production time. Which one you go with depends on your manufacturing set up. “Unlike many industries, much of the woodwork sector is designing and building by hand, but that’s changing now. We think using software, correctly configured with a CNC, is the only long term way for a woodwork business to be successful. The software is affordable in comparison with similar high end pro solutions and is a great way to make this step forward. We’re happy that so many companies in Africa are utilising our software, often in conjunction with their CNC production process, to work faster and better,” said Stefan Zabel, Director, Wood Designer Ltd. Vectorworks, Inc. is a global design and BIM software solutions provider serving over 675,000 professionals in the architecture, landscape and entertainment industries. Since 1985, we’ve been committed to helping designers capture inspiration, nurture innovation, communicate effectively and bring their visions to life. With their cross-platform software, designers can build data-rich, visual models without sacrificing the design process, while collaborating efficiently throughout the project life-cycle. Headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with offices in Newbury and London, England and Vancouver, Canada, Vectorworks is a part of the Nemetschek Group. Cadprofi covers almost all African countries. Algeria seems to be the most popular with 652 licenses, followed by Tunisia (289), Morocco (180) and South Africa (146). They have distributors Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa. Their products are being used in small, medium and large projects. They mostly cover four industries: architectural, HVAC and piping, mechanical and electrical. Africa as a market is developing quite fast. As the construction market is developing fast there is also a higher need for professional CAD programs and industry CAD add-ons. Thanks to our software users can easily draw and edit projects using advanced commands
and the largest library of symbols and objects prepared in both national and international standards. Smart-builder’s software is used to design many different glass structures all over the world and in Africa. Used by thousands of companies in over 30 countries to design millions of structures over the last 20 years. They consider themselves world leaders in making specialized software for the glass industry. Furthermore, as a development company they are constantly updating and creating new features in software. In addition to their design modules, Smart Builder developed Smart-Toolbox, a job management system built to manage your business. Smart-Toolbox caters for your way of working and comes with a built-in glass panel designer, Smart-Glass.” ConstruSteel’s software is used by steel fabrication companies for structural steel projects worldwide. Theyconsider their software the most efficient in steel fabrication in the world, thanks to good CNC machinery combined with automation software. Winqs software solutions has been used on large projects in African countries that include: South Africa, Lesotho, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Ethiopia, Tanzania, Uganda, Zimbabwe, Madagascar, Rwanda, Namibia, Angola, Mauritius, Zambia, Malawi, Botswana, Seychelles, Swaziland, and Mozambique. Funbim‘s software has been used in large projects in Nigeria. Greater construction efficiencies and more trust and transparency in the work being done on site will accelerate the adoption of new technologies, and with so much construction and infrastructure work set to take place in Africa in the coming years – as well as the constraints of very remote and harsh environments. Africa could become a hotbed for construction software and construction technology development and implementation. 