KOHLER is putting the freedom of choice into the hands of South African consumers and
specifiers with their latest Components line of interchangeable tap elements. This collection offers a wide range of modern, minimalist options for creating a complete and personalized aesthetic. All components are available in fashionable polished chrome, with consumers able to create
their own personalized tap configuration tailor-made for any environment by following this
simple two-step process: For both sink and bath, choose from Row, a modern design with crisp angles; Ribbon, true to their name, these taps give the appearance of thin ribbons; and Tube, a timeless, a familiar cylindrical style. For sink applications, a sleek single-control Rocker handle may be placed anywhere on the deck within range; or for more widespread configurations, choose from an Oyl handle; modern Industrial and Lever handles as well as the Pin Handle being available for both bath and shower. This latest Components tap collection epitomizes forward thinking design solutions: delicate
precision for accurate control of the flow and water temperature, gentle control in the single control handle for smooth and graceful magnetic motion, and a natural laminar flow with a hidden aerator to create an organic water flow. The Components Collection epitomizes the proverb of beauty being in the eye of the beholder, by giving customers the chance to create something of substance that suits their own design ideals. The line is pared down and refined, but luxurious and chic enough to make a statement in any setting. The highest quality engineering and materials assure that the taps will be enjoyed and admired for a long time to come. Components taps are original and timeless, with a unique look that belongs wholly to the homeowner. KOHLER®  was founded in 1873 and is headquartered in Kohler, Wisconsin, USA. Kohler Co. is one of America’s oldest and largest privately held companies. Kohler Kitchen and Bath Group has more than 42 manufacturing locations worldwide and is a global leader in the manufacture of kitchen and bath products; engines and power systems; decorative, and owner/operator of two of the world’s finest five-star hospitality and golf resort destinations in Kohler, and St Andrews, Scotland. For media enquiries, please contact:
JP inc. Communications
J-P de la Chaumette
T: 072 073 7200
E: jp@jpinc.co.za