The government of Ghana is set to receive US $147m support from UK Export Finance (UKEF) for three projects in bid to impact on the country’s infrastructure and economic development. “Ghana is an increasingly dynamic economy and I am delighted that UKEF is supporting the development of the vital infrastructure that will underpin this growth. These projects will have a dramatic impact on trade, healthcare and transport in the country and demonstrate how British expertise across a number of sectors is improving vital infrastructure all over the world,” said International Trade Secretary Dr Liam Fox MP. Also Read:US $7bn to be injected into infrastructure fund in South Africa Out the US $147m, US $80m will go towards a contract for Contracta Construction UK to develop and modernise Kumasi Central Market, a major trading centre in the Ashanti region which is currently visited by up to 800,000 people daily. UKEF will provide a direct loan and bank guarantee to Ghana’s Ministry of Finance to fund the contract, which will include improvements to electrical networks, water supplies, generators, fire detection systems and public transport. US 50m$ will be awarded to QG Construction UK to undertake the  modernization of Tamale Airport in the northern region of Ghana. The project will include the construction of a modern new international terminal building, access roads and ancillary facilities exclusive for civil aviation in the existing airport space. The expansion is designed to promote economic growth, to increase tourism and to boost socio-economic development by improving connections to the north of Ghana. It will also benefit Hajj pilgrims with the new Multipurpose Facility serving as a terminal building during the Hajj Season. The third project, the Bekwai hospital will receive the remaining US $20m to support  a contract between Ellipse UK and the Eurofinsa group. The companies will manage every aspect of the hospital’s completion including the supply and installation of medical equipment. Upon completion, the hospital will have 120 beds, an emergency department, a maternity ward and an operating theatre.