Model Maker Systems was registered as a company to develop and sell software in August 1989. This means 2019 is a very special year for them because they are still going strong while many developers in the same field from the 1980’s don’t exist anymore. According to Carel Viljoen the CEO, further development and a policy of providing affordable software with outstanding support, helped them become one of the leading suppliers of software over the years. “We now have nearly 4000 companies spread over 83 countries using our software. Some of these companies are leaders in their field and of the larger ones around,” he adds. The software consist of:
– Model Maker, with its base of survey data from all possible sources and extensive CAD, Design and Quantification functionality is now used by Land Surveyors, Technical Surveyors, Civil Engineers, Mining Engineers, Irrigation Engineers and Roads and Earthworks Contractors. – Road Maker is used for the design and quantification of all types of roads or any project involving cross-sectional presentation of data. – Pipe Maker is used for the design and quantification of township pipe services – water, sewer and storm-water. – Survey Maker has all standard calculations required by surveyors in various applications, but its focus is on Cadastral Land Survey needs to create SG diagrams and Sectional Title diagrams fast and easy. Point Cloud Viewer was developed with the aim to convert point cloud data into more manageable data for conventional DTM software like Model Maker. We believe our products are affordable and with its user friendly and easy presentation it provides for a highly productive tool in its field of application. One of the main benefits users have is our commitment to exceptional support and further development to accommodate the latest technologies in hardware and software available. “During 2018 we embarked on a new development project that we believe will keep Model Maker Systems going for the next 30 years or more. We will probably start to test this with users early in 2020. This new product will combine our knowledge and experience of the last 30 years in one single package with functionality from all our existing products,” affirms Mr. Viljoen.