Construction works of phase 2 Oxford Parks Project in South Africa is set for completion in September 2020. This is according to construction company in charge Concor Buildings. The project which is situated at the 199 Oxford Road have two phases; Phase 1 and Phase 2 comprising of four buildings which total up to approximately 34,000 m2 and will include the new Johannesburg head office for BPSA. Also Read:Construction of Nairobi’s tallest estate in Kenya begins Oxford Parks is being developed by Intaprop– a premier property developer is set to become a vibrant mixed use sector. It will encompass of and up market green star rated offices (A & P Grade), apartments, penthouses and hotels, as well as niche supporting retail and cafés. Phase one of the development included construction of three basement levels and BPSA’s six office levels. It was completed last year. Phase two which started in February 2019 consist of two office buildings with each block designed to meet a four star green rating as certified by the Green Building Council, South Africa’s Green Star System while also prioritizing energy efficiency and use of less cement and concrete materials. Block one of the phase 2 project which is scheduled for completion in January 2020, will have four basement levels measuring 11 000 m2 offering three office levels of more than 2 800 m2 gross building area (GBA). On the ground floor there will be a retail component comprising of 670 m2 gross leasable area (GLA) with the GLA of the office level amounting to more than 2 500 m2. Block two  will be completed by September 2020. It will comprise of office levels and four basement levels, about 8 750 m2 which will be used for office space while 12 440 m2 will be the basement area. Moreover it will include a ground floor retail component of about 1 047 m2 GLA. However, Chris Maritz, Concor Contract Manager noted that heavy rainfalls experienced in February slowed down construction works on site and therefore it will be challenging to meet the deadline.