Sustainability is the keyword that has been driving the homeowners’ market in recent years, as the word of the unquestionable benefits of greener living have started to spread across the globe. Not only are sustainable homes intended to safeguard the planet and its ecosystems from a bleak and lifeless future, but they are also geared towards mindful individuals who wish to take control of their expenditure, and make long-term financial savings. Aside from using sustainable building materials in the construction phase itself and adhering to eco-friendly lifestyle habits, there are a number of design solutions you can introduce in order to create a more sustainable living environment. Let’s take a look at the top seven design trends that will inspire you to build a sustainable future for you and your family. Energy efficiency is one of the pillars of environmentalism and long-term sustainability, which should come as no surprise given the growing scarcity of natural resources across the globe and the increasingly dire predictions for the future of climate change. As the need to increase energy conservation in the commercial and residential realms starts to become an imperative, homeowners are starting to prioritize energy-efficient solutions in their homes. And it all starts with the kitchen. Arguably one of the most energy-demanding areas of a modern household, the kitchen is a hectic place that’s constantly draining financial and natural resources. With that in mind, there is a need to upgrade all appliances to achieve lower energy expenditure on a daily basis. Choose units with a high Energy Star rating that you can easily program to your exact needs to cut needless expenditure. Follow the same principle for the rest of the household and choose smart, eco-friendly electronics instead of their traditional counterparts. Water conservation is another crucial element of sustainable living and design, as it aims to cut extraneous water waste across the board, and even introduce water recycling features to generate a net-zero household when it comes to resource consumption. From passive conservation features such as rain collection systems, to active solutions such as smart technology that intuitively scales the overall water use in the household, there are plenty of modern solutions at your disposal. You can start small by addressing the areas of your home where water is consumed the most. These will be the bathroom, and the kitchen. Consider introducing small changes such as low-flow toilets and shower heads, as well as faucet aerators to minimize expenditure without sacrificing water pressure. You can combine these concrete changes with sustainable water-spending habits to maximize conservation. The modern household and its decor and both aesthetically appealing and functional. This is the basic premise behind modern interior design, as it aims to bring a beautiful yet purposeful living environment to life that will benefit the family as well as the environment. There are plenty of sustainable decor elements you can bring into every room to enhance the look while knowing that you are supporting conservation and preservation in the process. Consider replacing traditional carpets with an organic jute rug in key areas of the household, for example, to support local artisans and sustainable production methods. Follow the same mindset throughout the household, and emphasize sustainable accents such as locally-sourced wood, organic linens and bedding materials, and even scented candles free of paraffin, dyes, or synthetic fragrances. Home sustainability is not just about environmentalism and cutting your overhead costs, it’s also about sustainability in a very literal sense – including home protection and your personal safety. Home security is one of the prerequisites for sustainable living, and smart technology aims to banish all worry with its innovative features that will deter every home invader. You can start your home security retrofit by introducing smart locking systems that connect directly to your smartphone and allow you to keep a watchful eye on your property. Combine your smart lock and alarm systems on the doors and windows with sturdier doors made out of sustainable materials and you will have built yourself an impervious home. Another key element of sustainability in the modern household that serves a multitude of purposes, is sustainable furniture. Not only are modern household furniture such as living room couches manufactured through eco-friendly means and bear sustainable furnishings the likes of reclaimed wood and recycled metals, but contemporary models also boast smart technology to boot. You can equip your living environment with wireless charging tables and modular furniture that boast a smart design intended to improve comfort and ease of use. Look for furniture that has sustainable covers and furnishings such as faux leather in order to enjoy a more luxurious look while knowing that you are not making a negative impact on the environment. To light a home means to consume vast amounts of energy with inefficient incandescent lighting that is everything but sustainable. Or at least it used to be like this until forward-looking homeowners have started to realize the benefits of LED and even smart lighting solutions. Companies such as Philips are increasingly catering to homeowners and their needs by producing smart light bulbs that you can control and scale to your liking, and even program for a specific type of use. Combining a smart lighting scheme with light sensors and voice commands will allow you to manage your household’s electricity consumption from a far, especially if you integrate these solutions with a smartphone app. On a final note, there is a need to recognize the potential of home automation for long-term financial savings and eco-friendliness. Home automation puts the control back into the hands of the homeowner, allowing you to manage your entire household from your smartphone, and use intuitive dashboards to monitor resource consumption in real time, thus adapting your lifestyle habits as needed. Investing in automation is a positive step towards a more sustainable future, one that aims to safeguard your family budget as well as the environment. Sustainability has become an inextricable part of modern home design, so no matter if you’re looking to reinvent your living environment or if you’re building a home from scratch, you want sustainability to be your guiding star. Let these trends inspire you to adopt positive habits and create the living environment your family deserves.