The construction industry plays a key role for governments in both developed and developing economies. The global construction industry is expected to reach an estimated US $10.5 trillion by 2023 with an expected to rise of 4.3% on average. The U.S. construction industry is among the largest in the world, with annual expenditures of over US $ 1.2 trillion; this type of annual spending shows that construction is one of the drivers of the U.S. economy. Construction companies spend more than US $10 trillion in goods and services including the purchase of construction equipment which form a major part of a construction site. Here are the top construction equipment manufacturers in the United States: Caterpillar is the world’s leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives. CAT has a global presence in more than 500 locations worldwide. Founded in 1925, the American company manufactures both heavy construction equipment ranging from wheel loaders, excavators, loaders, motor graders to small construction equipment such as backhoe loaders, small loaders and mini excavators. For more than 180 years, John Deere has manufactured equipment’s from the Agriculture, construction, forestry and electronic industries. The American company manufactures both the heavy and the compact construction equipment’s that can be used in road building, site preparation, commercial building, pipeline and quarry aggregate.Some of their heavy equipment comprise of Articulated Dump Trucks, Large Dozers, Large Excavators and Large Wheel Loaders, Established in America in 1970 is the world second largest producer of construction equipment. Komatsu America Corp. is a U.S. subsidiary of Komatsu Ltd. Komatsu is a leading manufacturers and suppliers of earth-moving equipment, including construction, mining and compact construction equipment and also serves forklift and forestry markets. Komatsu is present in 151 locations across the world with headquarters in Rolling Meadows, Illinois. Terex Corporation is focused on providing solutions to our Machinery and Industrial Product customers that yield superior productivity and return on investment. Some of the equipment’s include mixer trucks, backhoe loaders, site dumper, Compaction Rollers.The company has been providing solutions to Machinery and Industrial Product for 86 years. VOLVO is a leading international manufacturer of premium construction equipment with a full product range, manufactured, serviced and supported all over the globe. The Sweden Company has production facilities all over the world. VOLVO manufactures a range of wheel loaders, excavators, articulated haulers, soil and asphalt compactors, pavers, compact equipment and material handling equipment.The North American headquarters is based in Shippensburg, Pennsylvania. For more than 100 years, parker has provided electronic controls using state of the art technology and global experience with excavator and earth moving equipment applications. Parker Hannifin offers individual components and system solutions for construction, Agriculture Industry, Construction Industry, Concrete Pumpers, Excavators, Material Handling Industry and Transportation Industry. Parker Hannifin headquarters is based in Cleveland, Ohio with over 13,000 locations around the world. The 175-year history of CASE Construction Equipment over the decades began to pioneer equipment for road construction. CASE manufactures mostly Backhoe Loaders, Compact Track Loaders, Compaction Equipment, Dozers, Excavators, Forklifts, Motor Graders, Skid Steer Loaders, Tractor Loaders and Wheel Loaders. The American company is based in Wisconsin. Bobcat Company the design, manufacture, marketing and distributes compact equipment for construction, rental, landscaping, agriculture, grounds maintenance, government, utility, industry and mining. Started in 1947 in South Dakota, U.S. Bobcat is the state’s largest manufacturer, with three North Dakota production facilities. Global Bobcat manufacturing facilities are located in France, Czech Republic and China. The Hitachi brand has a history that spans more than 100 years since its inception shop in Japan in 1910. Some of the products available include compact excavators, utility excavators, and wheeled excavators and haul tractors. Hitachi meets the demand of the mining and construction industry with highly efficient, reliable and durable machines. The main headquarters is U.S can be found inTarrytown, New York. The globally recognized company J.C. Bamford Excavators Limited, JCB manufactures equipment for construction, agriculture, waste handling and demolition. JCB produces over 300 types of machines, including diggers (backhoes), excavators, tractors and diesel engines. The company has 22 factories across Asia, Europe, North America and South America. Some of the construction equipment’s include Excavators, Wheeled loaders and tractors. JCB construction equipment can be found in Savannah, Georgia.