It is every construction industry player’s wish to see a project being delivered on time no matter the magnitude and complexity of work on the site. Every client also dreams to witness Quality, Safety, Speed and Timely completion of their projects. This has led to the rising demand of mechanization in the industry since construction equipment tend to be the only remedy to this needs. The Building and Construction sector has been relevant in the development of the Nigerian economy. In the 2016 Federal Government Budget, a total of US $1.2bn was budgeted, comprising of US $717m for Works, US $251m for Power and US $197m for housing. This shows the commitment of the Federal government of Nigeria to infrastructure development. According to the Federal Minister of Power, Works & Housing, during the implementation of the 2016 budget, US $130m was been paid to 62 contractors working on 149 projects to continue work on roads and bridges and keep people at work and sustain production. The following are top construction equipment companies in Nigeria that are granting the wishes of construction industry players in terms of Quality, Safety, Speed and Timely completion of their projects. This is the sole distributor company of CAT equipment in Nigeria. Mantrac Nigeria Ltd distributes and supports the full range of CAT construction equipment including Wheel Loaders, Skid Steer Loaders, Dump Articulated Trucks, Backhoe Loaders, Excavators, Motor Graders, Track-Type Tractors, BCP products. Mantrac Nigeria Ltd. is also the sole approved supplier of genuine Caterpillar parts, which are available at competitive prices. They have highly qualified staff in all their offices to meet customer needs and their service centers are equipped to perform total overhauls by qualified service engineers, with necessary diagnostic and repair tools that can be dispatched at any time to customers’ Bawa Equipment Nigeria Limited is an equipment distributor company based in Lagos. The company is backed up by Major Foreign Industrial and Heavy Equipment firms who are seriously dedicated to its plight of providing efficient, cost-effective and flexible solutions while meeting the growing demand for construction equipment’s and machines in Nigeria. The company is registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) of Nigeria and it provides services in the sales, leasing, repairs and servicing of all kinds of heavy equipment in construction dredging, marine engineering and offshore projects (oil and gas). SMT is the leading distributor of Volvo Construction Equipment (Volvo CE) in Nigeria. The company offers a vast range of very diverse construction machinery: wheeled loaders, backhoe loaders, articulated dumpers, forestry excavators, demolition equipment, pipe layers, articulated dumper trucks, excavators, road construction equipment and compact machines. SMT are also Volvo repairers who are well informed to the smallest detail and they keep updating themselves with the up to date trends. Their workshops are armed with the manufacturer’s diagnostic systems and all the special tools required for maintenance and repair of the products they sell. SMT Service Contracts provide servicing and maintenance for your Volvo equipment with optimal cost control and reduced downtime. When incorporated in 1952, Leventis Motors became a name synonymous with quality and assurance of support in automotive, construction equipment and other related products. It is the only automobile company in Nigeria with ISO 9001:2008 certification, with a team of over 900+ workforce and Pan Nigerian presence with a network of seven operating branches with sales, after-market and parts availability. They are distributors of JCB construction equipment in Nigeria and West Africa at large. Customer satisfaction is the company’s priority and they ensure this is achieved by training their staff and deploying processes and resources as required. The WIRTGEN GROUP is an internationally operating group of companies in the construction machinery sector incorporating the traditional product brands: WIRTGEN, VÖGELE, HAMM, KLEEMANN and BENNINGHOVEN. As a technical leader, WIRTGEN offers mobile machine solutions for road construction and road rehabilitation, plants for mining and processing minerals or recycling material and for the production of asphalt. Mikano is the distributor of Hyundai Construction Industries (HHI) in Nigeria; distributing/servicing the full range of Hyundai construction equipment which includes Hyundai Hydraulic Excavator, Wheel Loader, Skid Steer Loader, Backhoe Loader and Forklifts (Diesel, Battery & LPG/Petrol). The company prides itself in delivering, not just the Hyundai Construction Equipment & forklifts to the Nigerian market, but also to satisfy its customers by bringing industry leading parts, services and support infrastructure; ensuring lasting relationship with customers and industry stakeholders alike. Founded in 1968, C. Woermann (Nigeria) Ltd provides Nigerian businesses and dealerships with high quality technical equipment by well-known German, European and international manufacturers.Consultancy, spare parts, technical training and workshops complete the company’s services. In the construction industry, C. Woermann distributes, Power Tools, Hand Tools, Measuring Equipment’s, Electric Equipment’s, High Pressure Cleaners, Cut-off Saws, Compressors, Welding Machines, Earth Moving Equipment’s, Concrete Mixer etc. Frantz Equipment Parts Services Nigeria Ltd (Feps Nigeria limited) is a dealership and consultant for construction equipment and parts. The company has over 30 years, experience as a supplier to Nigerian construction companies through their partner company in Germany. Their construction equipment services are now available directly in Nigeria in where they have their own workshops, warehouse and technical workforce. The company offers sales of construction equipment with detailed consulting and it is an officially licensed dealer for Nigeria with all their suppliers. They supply concrete conveying equipment’s, dumpers, wheel loaders, compressors, concrete block machinery among others. 