Construction of 110 out of 900 two bed-roomed housing units for resettling Elgon landslide families in Bunambutye Sub-County, Bulambuli district has been completed. Mr. Fred Tweheyo, the officer-in-charge of logistics at the site, confirmed the reports and said the remaining housing units being constructed in the first phase are yet to be completed. “We have completed the construction of most of the houses except a few on the Uganda People’s Defence Forces (UPDF) site that we are now doing the final touches. We will soon be ready to hand over to the government,” said Fred Tweheyo. “There are arrangements being made to ensure that the first batch of the victims found to be at high risk of landslides are relocated but the date is not yet set. We also engaging other ministries including that of Education and Health to erect emergency centres before the people are moved,” he added. Also Read:Kenya waives building approval fees for affordable housing projects The housing units estimated to cost US $8m, are being constructed by Uganda People’s Defense Force (UPDF), Police, Prison engineering brigade with MLHUD performing the supervisory function as assigned by government. The government acquired the said land, which is more than 2,800 acres in 2013, as part of its 10- year resettlement plan. The housing unit project will comprise of  two bed roomed permanent houses, nursery and primary schools, one health center three, a market, recreation center, trading center and religious institution. Over 1000 families are to be relocated from landslide prone areas around Mt Elgon to Bunambutye land. The 900 housing units are being constructed in three phases; with each phase delivering 300 housing units. The units will additionally have two acres of land for agriculture.The government acquired the said land, which is more than 2,800 acres in 2013, as part of its 10- year resettlement plan.Total duration of construction is estimated at 20 months up to 30th July 2020. Bududa LC5 chairperson, earlier spoke during the commissioning of the project and hailed government for fulfilling its pledge, adding that institutions mandated to construct the houses should expedite the process so that families can be relocated before the rains start. 