Construction of Zimbabwe’s biggest infrastructure development in 24 years- the Egodini mall which was set to open its doors to the public this year has stalled due to the country’s financial breakdown. Contractors developing the project that is aimed to change the face of the city business-wise has not been on site. Only test holes drilled by geo-technical and hydrological teams remain in place, but the work has stopped. “The Zimbabwean economy is not doing well at the moment. As the economy improves, then we will do phase two and as the economy improves, we then do phase three. That is the way it will actually works,” said Bulawayo Mayor Solomon Mguni. “We have summoned the project directors and are putting final touches before construction work can continue,” Metropolitan Affairs minister Judith Ncube added. Also Read:The GoDown art complex in Kenya to be upgraded at a cost of US $20m   Located in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe’s second largest city, Egodini mall is on a build, operate and transfer basis and would come at no cost to council. The site will include a transport hub located on the Basch Street ground level, retail sections and parking bays. South African contractor, civil engineering firm Terracotta Trading (Private) Limited, won the tender to upgrade the former Basch Street Terminus into a regional public transport hub in 2012 ahead of two other companies. The refurbishment is expected to see the terminus handling at least three million travellers per month, according to the council. As part of the redesign of the terminus, council will expand existing roads into the site and create dedicated pedestrian routes to increase traffic access. Upon completion the development is expected to would change the face of the city business-wise. Bulawayo was set to ultimately own it once Terracotta had recouped its investment. According to the Bulawayo City Council (BCC), opening of the mall has been further pushed back because the contractor is not ready. “Councillors’ opinions are divided. Some want us to cancel the deal, others want us to engage the contractor. We are yet to receive the progress report from council management and officials on the current state of work at Egodini. Councillors opinions are divided. Some want us to cancel the deal, others want us to engage the contractor. We are yet to receive the progress report from council management and officials on the current state of work at Egodini,” said  Solomon Mguni. 