64Door Factory, a manufacturer of interior wooden doors recently launched its investment in Kenya with opening of state of the art production facility in Nairobi worth US $2.4m. The company targets to provide high quality interior door sets and installation service to the building industry in East Africa. The launch further reinforces Kenya as a preferred foreign investment destination in the region. 64Door Factory has large stock of different doors at its factory facility in Nairobi which enables the company to provide service to individual builders as well as small and large-scale construction projects with short delivery and installation times. The factory has the capacity to produce over 50,000 doors annually. The door factory comes at a time the GoK is aggressively fostering the Big 4 agenda: manufacturing, food security, universal healthcare and affordable housing. This project is timely and will buttress the twin pillars of housing and manufacturing. By manufacturing in the country, the company will facilitate technology transfer and human capital formation through skills transfer to local staff. The factory estimates to employ over 100 staff at full production who will be equipped with skills on latest technologies and best practices in woodworking. Speaking at the launch, 64Door Factory Ltd. Director Mr. Nyamu Wanyoike said that the decision to set up operations in Nairobi was based on the current needs of the country. He further expressed his optimism about their long term partnership approach with Kenyan builders, suppliers, distributors, resellers, contractors and professionals, among other stakeholders, in the construction sector. “We will offer one stop shop solutions to our customers for their door requirements, a shift from the current market practices and we offer imported quality level, locally produced with pre and after sales support.” Mr.Nyamu concluded. The project is a partnership of private investors from Kenya and European Union member Estonia. More than 52% of Estonian landmass is covered with forest and this enables Estonia to be a global leader in wood technology with a sophisticated timber industry which will serve as a source of world class technique and solutions for East-African market. By investing in Kenya, the project aims to tap into the Eastern Africa market from its Kenyan base.