Epoxy flooring is used when a concrete/uncoated floor is not suitable for the process which is running on it; such as breweries, dairies, hospitals, car parks, hospitals, schools, aircraft hangars etc. The use of resin flooring enhances a floor’s performance by improving clean-ability and hygiene, durability and impact/abrasion resistance. It can also be used to protect the structural floor from chemical attack, damage from heavy/excessive traffic and loads or spillage of hot/boiling liquids including fire as Jacques of SA floors in South Africa mentions. The following are factors to keep in mind when installing epoxy flooring: What is the floor actually being used for and what is the floor going to be subjected to; according to Christine Masta of Basf, the correct choice of floor is 100% based on these critical factors. For example in a in a food & beverage manufacturing/processing plant – the floor may be subject to spillage of hot liquids and aggressive chemicals (sugar is particularly corrosive), so you must have a floor that is able to withstand these. Similarly, in an airport environment you will need a floor that is resistant to UV and will withstand the spillage of aviation fuel. Once the correct floor has been chosen that it is then critical that the floor is applied correctly by an applicator trained and approved by the manufacturer. A correctly specified and applied floor will bring a building owner many years of maintenance free operating. Epoxy flooring should always be installed by qualified professionals according to the instructions for each market to ensure that all warranties remain valid.Although the installation instructions may vary slightly depending on the choice of design and floor size, make sure that the adhesive used is compatible with epoxy and the subfloor. According to Silvia Milesi V&V Srl in Italy, it is very satisfying when you achieve whatever end result you envisioned. Preparation Proper preparation is of utmost importance to ensure a successful floor coating. Furthermore, Verni Bortha of Verni in South Africa mentions that, Coved Skirting is are a requirement in specific environments, especially where hygiene is factor like food processing plants.This is because it prevents a buildup of dirt, bacteria and other small bits which lay on the edge of a floor. Instead, the coving stops corners and edges trapping the dirt so the floor is easier to clean and sanitize correctly.  Contact our contributors South Africa 