The Kenya Electricity Transmission Company (Ketraco) has commissioned the Nairobi Ring Associated Sub-stations project that is set to offer a different path for power into the Nairobi Metropolitan region. According to Ketraco Managing Director Mr. Fernandes Barasa, construction will involves building 220/66kV capacity sub-stations in Isinya, Kimuka (Ngong), and Athi River and Malaa areas which will in turn increase transformation capacity and removing load from the existing overloaded substations. “The Nairobi Ring project will bring on the table a different supply path for power into the Nairobi Metropolitan region and increase transformation capacity while eliminating load from the existing overloaded substations,” said Mr. Barasa. Also Read: Feasibility study to electrify remote areas in Ethiopia and Nigeria kicks off Nairobi County previously received power from the Tana River Hydro Power Stations through various transmission lines to Juja, Dandora and the Embakasi stations. It is also connected to Jinja (Uganda) through a 132kV line that connects Lessos and Rabai substations to Juja substation. In addition, the capital city was connected to Olkaria, in 2004, using a line from Olkaria through Nairobi North to Dandora. “This project is Ketraco’s solution to the never ending demand for electricity in the Nairobi metropolis. The project involves strengthening the Kenyan grid by creating a ring around the Nairobi collection through reinforcing the existing grid that bypasses the agglomeration by the east, and by building a 400kV line that will bypass it by the west,” said Mr. Barasa. The 400kv which initially operated at 220kV, will be the pillar of the future 400kV regional grid linking Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania. Upon completion, the project will escalate reliability of power supply and create an attractive climate for investors and this will in turn contribute to economy growth and employment opportunities. “It is anticipated that the project will improve uninterrupted power supply into the Nairobi metropolis and encourage the social and economic development of the city and the country as a whole,” said Barasa. 