Kenya’s architectural profession has continued to transform for the better with excellent projects already done and more earmarked for the future. With their skilled teams of associate architects, technicians, designers, specialist consultants and support staff,the firms are able to offer comprehensive design services from the initial feasibility study through to the completed contract on all types of work. The following are top architectural firms in Kenya that have contributed to some of the breath-taking high rise structures in the country. Triad Architects has been at the forefront of the architectural profession in Kenya and the East Africa region since 1963, founded by by Amyas Connell and Graham McCullough. TRIAD’s experience spanning over 50 years includes the successful designing and delivery of over 3900 projects with a wide range of typologies that include; Master Plans, Hotels, Office & Urban developments, Shopping malls, Residential, Institutional, and Industrial developments, and Corporate Interiors. TRIAD prides itself of having and maintaining a clear corporate governance structure, and in the year 2000 became the first Kenyan architectural practice to attain ISO certification. We have since then continued to retain this well-respected quality management system as certified by ISO, currently – ISO 9001:2015. Some of the iconic designs the firm has come up with since establishment include; designing the Kenyan Parliament in Nairobi, an icon of modern architecture, the Aga Khan Hospital,  the first safari lodges that included the Ark, Keekorok and Samburu Lodges,  Corner House and Times Tower, both significant buildings on Nairobi’s skyline. Symbion is a leading-multinational architectural firm with over 35 years of heritage in East and Southern Africa. The firm is known to offer services to those who desire to create spaces in which their lifestyles and livelihoods can thrive, all the while embracing and adding value to Africa’s landscape. The services offered has in return seen the firm deliver some of sub-Saharan Africa’s most iconic and beautiful architectural developments including; the Equatoria Tower, Kenya National Thearter(Interior design), Airport Trade Centre among others. By constantly pushing ourselves to challenge the industry status quo, Symbion has developed multiple award winning projects extending from commercial, medical, institutional, hotel and residential developments, to name a few. Today, Symbion is present across 5 locations in 4 countries and has outstanding personnel of over 100 staff whose continued professional development is key to the Group’s success. AKML is an innovative, full-service boutique architecture firm with a focus on design for the modern era. Founded in 2012 by Architect Martin Tairo, the firm purposefully embraces design projects of several genres, including residential, commercial, interiors, industrial and hospitality typologies. The firm  pride themselves on balance of individual creativity, collaborative design process, and responsive, professional practice which allows them to consistently deliver added value to a project team. Their work passionate has seen the firm offering exemplary project solutions that are aesthetically striking and environmentally responsible. Belgin Woods is an extremely design oriented firm established in 1988 by David Beglin who had a vision of having each project however small, is designed, detailed and built to the highest possible standards. Over the last 24 years, Beglin Woods Architects have been Architects and Interior Designers for a wide variety of major residential, commercial, industrial and tourism projects. The practice has grown and expanded rapidly and is now one of the most prominent practices in East Africa. The firm works hand in hand with their clients during the design process. Consultants and contractors are carefully chosen for their specific ability to contribute to the success of each project. Some of the works the firm has been involved in include;Master plan for a five-acre Bidco in Nakuru, designing Hillcrest Secondary School, Crown Plaza Hotel among others. all their projects are designed in 3D software. Waweru & Associates is a premier architectural firm established in January 1972 by J. G. Waweru and was the first fully indigenous architectural firm registered in Kenya. The firm offers specialized consultancy services in architecture, land use planning, and interior design. It has over 41 years of professional architectural experience and has established itself as a reputable provider of high quality architectural services. Through out the years, W & A has been dedicated to providing excellent and sustainable design solutions based on client needs through efficient, aesthetically pleasant, sustainable and meticulously detailed designs, all within available resources. Founded in 1965, DMJ Architects is a relatively small, Nairobi-based firm with three principal architects, supported by a team of experienced architectural assistants and admin staff. The size of our staff base means that we operate well as a team, with everyone getting involved. The firm’s experience covers Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Uganda, Botswana, Rwanda, Sudan, Somalia, Namibia and Ghana. DMJ is also associated with  architectural firms based in the United Kingdom, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, Kenya and Botswana. DMJ Architects is Nairobi-based firm founded in 1965 by Robert Marshall. The firm offers services such as; feasibility studies, master planning, outlined proposal designs, scheme designs, construction drawings, interior designs, tender evaluation and administration of construction contracts. Despite being a relatively small firm, its remarkable services has earned the company to be ranked among top for having exceptional design in environmentally sensitive landscapes, such as the Serengeti National Park and the Kenyan coast. The Mombasa Intercontinental Hotel, Nyali Beach, Aberdare Country Club, Indian Ocean Beach Club, the Norfolk and Finch Hattons camp Tsavo are some of the projects they have undertaken. The firm’s work has since its establishment  spread to include a diverse range of projects in not only in Kenya but also Tanzania, Ethiopia, Uganda, Botswana, Rwanda, Sudan, Somalia, Namibia and Ghana. DMJ is also associated with architectural firms based in the United Kingdom and South Africa. The Bowman Associates Architects began its operations in 1999 offering independent architectural design, project management and related consultancy services for office projects, shopping centers, hotels, apartments and residential projects and master-planning services. The firm based in Nairobi operates throughout the East African region with the highest standards of design and professionalism with extensive experience in design, documentation and contract management of large-scale projects. BAA has established itself as a highly professional and competent practice offering clients fresh and creative ideas that combine stylish design with responsible use of money, sound maintenance principles and professionally executed services. Bowman Associates is fully resourced with a team of full-time professional who ensure the long-term development and quality. Some of the firm’s projects include: The Hub Karen,Mombasa Island Hotel,Montave Upper Hill Nairobi and many more.   