Ghana’s Amenfi East Municipal Assembly has commissioned three projects aimed to boost service delivery by the beneficiary institutions in the area. The projects commissioned include a maternity block funded by the District Development Facility at a cost of US $75,158. The facility features dispensary, delivery room and staff offices among others. Also Read:Construction of Moshupa Hospital in Botswana to commence The newly constructed maternity block for the Municipal Government Hospital would solve the challenge of inadequate space for mothers who visited the health facility to seek healthcare The second project is a three-unit classroom block with ancillary facilities at Ntowkrom funded with proceeds from the District Assembly Common Fund at a cost of US $42,507 while the third project is a rehabilitated six-unit classroom block at Abreshia. The was also rehabilitated with the assembly’s Internally Generated Funds at a cost US $3,2843. According to Municipal Chief Executive, Helena Appiah, health and education were critical areas for socioeconomic development. She pointed out that the Assembly would in line with government policies continue to provide accessible and equitable healthcare and education for all in the municipality. “Various components of the maternity facility would provide the congenial atmosphere for the hospital staff to attend to their clients on time. Continuous increase in the enrollment in schools had placed a greater responsibility on the assembly to deliver the needed infrastructure at the basic level to prepare the pupils adequately to take advantage of the government’s free education policy. In that regard, the assembly will intensify efforts to get teachers to fill the vacancies in all the schools in the municipality,” said Helena Appiah. The Municipal Chief Executive further affirmed that roads would be fixed and electricity and internet facilities extended to the community, to enable them link up with the rest of the communities in the municipality and beyond. 