Kenya is set to commence construction of a US $6.3m modern stadium in Bungoma County. Governor Wycliffe Wangamati announced the report and said that construction will be done in two phases. The Masinde Muliro-Kanduyi Stadium will sit on a 20-acre piece of land. Works will involve; expansion of the sports venue to a capacity for 5,000 people, and will take two years to complete. VIP terraces that can hold 2,000 people will be constructed alongside changing rooms, a perimeter wall, football pitch, a running track and parking area. Also Read:Afraha Stadium in Nakuru, Kenya to be upgraded to ultra-modern status The second phase will see the stadium, which sits on a 20-acre piece of land, expanded to a 20,000-seater facility. Upon completion, the stadium will have modern facilities and offices including spectator areas, changing rooms, locker rooms for sports officials and team coaches, changing rooms for ancillary staff, washrooms, first aid and medical centre, and a pitch maintenance and control room. The stadium will have a basketball court, football pitch, volleyball and netball courts as well as rugby, hockey and netball pitches, a swimming pool and a hall for indoor games as well as a gymnasium. It will also feature a media centre, VVIP lounge, boardrooms, an anti-doping room and changing rooms for referees. “We have a good plan for sportsmen and women of this region. We are doing these because the county government is committed to ensuring that we nurture and support local talents moving forward,” said Governor Wangamati. Lunao Enterprises won the tender for construction of the stadium and it is being implemented by Bungoma County Government. Masinde Muliro-Kanduyi Stadium is situated in a county, known for producing some of the best athletes in Kenya. Among the athletes to have come from the region are 1972 Olympics 3,000 metres steeplechase silver medallist Ben Jipcho, former 10,000m World champion Linet Masai, her brother Moses Masai, and long distance runner Leonard Komon.