The SOLA Group is a vertically integrated renewable energy company that is based in South Africa and that is growing businesses, connecting communities and helping people and governments in the African continent prosper by advancing the adoption of clean energy. The group is made up of two exceptional and corresponding businesses which are; The two companies, as SOLA Group, offers all stages of solar PV implementation from project development and financing through the SOLA Assets division, and design, procurement and construction, to the operations and maintenance of solar PV facilities through the SOLA Build. From their local and international solar experience of more than 20 years, plus their capabilities in utility-scale solar PV project development, to Commercial and Industrial EPC and PPA solutions, to energy storage and micro grid engineering, SOLA group is able to service a myriad of large-scale energy needs. The company has developed 313 MW PPA projects, designed and built 37.5 MW C&I Projects, designed and built 1.6 MWh Storage Projects and they are currently operating 33 MW Projects in Africa and beyond. SOLA group is currently developing a dedicated Operation and Maintenance (O&M) software package that will display key real time information about solar power plant performance and enabling clients to view and download financial and energy information over specified periods. Moreover, the O&M software is designed to provide the client with a comprehensive view of their solar power plant(s) operation. Through the system, clients will be alerted to any faults identified at their solar plants and will be notified about pending inspections, maintenance or cleanings. The O&M software will be used by the SOLA groups O&M division to streamline the overall functioning of the O&M business. SOLA uses Meteocontrol as its primary solar PV monitoring platform. Solar production data is captured, stored and interpreted via the Meteocontrol API. This repository of solar data forms the basis of the monthly reports, and the Meteocontrol platform allows for real time monitoring and troubleshooting. By procuring SOLA’s services, clients are buying in to a brand that stands for engineering excellence, guaranteed performance, and long-term partnership. SOLA Clients can rest assured that each solar system design is engineered carefully and thoroughly, with internal checks and balances to ensure a high quality solar PV system design that will guarantee performance over its lifetime. SOLA’s Performance Guarantee provides assurance of financial compensation should a solar PV system under perform. 