Rosema Bricks, a Gauteng-based alliance factory of Corobrik, has invested a whooping US $5.59m into a newly installed brick manufacturing technology, in a bid to bring a superior-quality face brick to the South African brick market. This substantial investment in the Olifantsfontein factory will advance the quality of Rosema Bricks’ ‘satin-texture bricks’ which is set to have a significant impact on the brick market going forward. Corobrik’s Commercial Director Musa Shangase says that Corobrik’s decades-long alliance with Rosema Bricks has continued to bring the highest possible face brick range to the construction industry. “Their most recent investment in what is seen as a state-of-the-art extrusion and setting technology globally, will rise the quality of face brick, ensuring the South African market continues to receive the best available product.” Rosema Bricks, which manufactures 34 million bricks per annum, has spent four months implementing a new setting machine with robotic packing onto kiln cars. The machine has the ability to pre-groove the bricks with rounded corners. The bricks are then cut by a push-up cutter, a first for the factory, all of which will drastically enhance the quality of the finished product. The kiln has also been upgraded so that it’s able to produce 25 percent more bricks in the future.  “Quality in the face brick market is crucial and that is why we invested in the upgrade of our production equipment this year, using the most advanced technology available so as to enhance the quality of our products,” explained Theo Rosema, CEO of Rosema Bricks. Mr. Rosema added that plans are already in place to install a new de-hacking station as well as an extra dryer. The setting machine has the capability to manufacture 50mm paving bricks and clay maxi bricks, however production of these will only commence once the new de-hacker is installed. “Operators were trained as the new setting machine was installed so as to ensure a smooth transition.” concluded the CEO. The Rosema Bricks’ Olifantsfontein factory has been operating for 33 years and it boasts a face brick range consisting of nine products (three satin texture and six travertine texture). Proving particularly popular in the housing and warehouse development markets as well as being selected by government for use in schools and clinics, the Redwood, Protea Travertine and Terracotta Satin ranges are currently emerging as top choices. These superior-quality face bricks form part of the extensive Corobrik brand, adhering to all international quality control standards. All of Corobrik’s clay face bricks boast superior thermal and noise reduction qualities, retaining structure and aesthetic quality.   