Global design and BIM software provider Vectorworks, Inc. announces the 2020 release of Vectorworks Architect, Landmark, Spotlight, Designer and Fundamentals, as well as 2020 versions of Vision and Braceworks. This newest release brings improved software performance, quality enhancements and new data-driven workflows. “Data and usability are the cornerstones of this year’s product line enhancements,” said Vectorworks CEO Dr. Biplab Sarkar. “When we looked at the future of the industry and what our customers’ needs were, we kept coming back to data, particularly data-driven insights. Vectorworks 2020 is centered around providing our customers with intuitive ways to use the powerful tools of our products, while also offering more practical ways to incorporate the use of data for an improved and insightful design workflow.” With this focus on insightful design, Vectorworks 2020 extends the existing Data Visualization feature to the design layer environment. This lets customers change objects’ attributes using data parameters to visualize data for error checking, work validation and quality control. “With Data Visualization now available on design layers, we’re able to keep our attribute assignments consistent between projects, allowing us to quickly and consistently draw attention to relevant design elements,” said Brendan Gray, principal designer and president of Gray Matter Visual, Inc. Additionally, customers will experience optimized Open BIM capabilities, improved file performance and other updates that include: The English-language editions of Vectorworks, Braceworks and Vision 2020 are available today. The release of localized European, Australian and New Zealand editions will be followed by Spanish, Brazilian Portuguese, Japanese and Chinese versions. About Vectorworks, Inc. Vectorworks, Inc. is an award-winning design and BIM software provider serving the architecture, landscape architecture and entertainment industries in 85 countries. Creating intuitive software since 1985, we’ve become the preeminent software built to manage the entire design process. Globally more than 685,000 users are creating, connecting and influencing the next generation of design with Vectorworks on Mac and Windows. Headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with offices in Atlanta, Georgia, Newbury and London, England and Vancouver, Canada, Vectorworks is a part of the Nemetschek Group.