The Scottish Government announced that as part of its digital technology strategy, BIM should be considered for the design, construction and operation of all public buildings and infrastructure. In turn, this is increasing the demand for 2D/3D/BIM design software in the Scottish market. Therefore, along with the release of Vectorworks 2020, Vectorworks is delighted to announce a new partnership with Scottish software and support specialist CMYK Digital Solutions. “With the existing demand and growing interest in design solutions incorporating BIM capability, it’s a meaningful development to add CMYK Digital Solutions to our network of partners across the UK,” said Vectorworks UK & Ireland Sales Director Adrian Slatter. “Together with ever increasing software capability as evidenced by the release of Vectorworks 2020, this will further strengthen the ongoing growth of Vectorworks in this market. Scotland represents a significant part of the Vectorworks business and this move will help further accelerate the growth we have seen across the UK and Ireland in recent years.” CMYK Service Operations Director David Crosby explained that they have been keen to better serve their existing and prospective architectural clients by extending their existing software portfolio. “With the addition of Vectorworks’ intuitive design software, architects, architectural technicians and BIM managers in Scotland will have a better choice of design tools and a supplier committed to helping them make the most of their investment,” said Crosby. “With the government’s ongoing commitment to BIM requirements for public buildings and infrastructure projects in Scotland, we are ideally placed to help customers and prospective customers who need to deliver projects that meet the new standards.” CMYK was founded in 1996 by a team of experienced professionals inspired by the digital revolution then sweeping through the IT and office equipment industries. We were determined to set completely new standards in the sale of and support for business technology, by focusing not just on what machines do, but on what clients actually need. This remains our vision today. Vectorworks, Inc. is an award-winning design and BIM software provider serving the architecture, landscape architecture and entertainment industries in 85 countries. Creating intuitive software since 1985, we’ve become the preeminent software built to manage the entire design process. Globally more than 685,000 users are creating, connecting and influencing the next generation of design with Vectorworks on Mac and Windows. Headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with offices in Atlanta, Georgia, Newbury and London, England and Vancouver, Canada, Vectorworks is a part of the Nemetschek Group.