The Forestry Development Authority (FDA) in Liberia is set to construct a US $330,000 regional office for region one (Bomi, Cape Mount, Gbarpolu and Montserrado counties). This is after The FDA and the World Bank performed the ground breaking ceremony of the development. The complex will be funded through the Liberia Forest Sector Project (LFSP), funding being provided by the government of Norway and managed by the World Bank. One of two regional offices is currently being constructed as part of the institutional capacity strengthening component of the LFSP. In 2014, the governments of Liberia and Norway signed a Letter of Intent (LoI) for the implementation of the Liberia Forest Sector Project through a grant funding of US $36.7m provided by the Government of Norway, and an additional grant of US $4.7m from the Liberia Forest Landscape Single Donor Trust Fund. The LFSP will be implemented by six government agencies, the FDA as lead entity, EPA, ministries of Agriculture and Mines and Energy, Liberian Land Authority (LLA), and Liberia Institute for Statistics and Geo-information Services (LISGIS). FDA Managing Director, C. Mike Doyen, lauded the Governments of Liberia and Norway, the project implementing entities and community dwellers, as well as civil society for the successful implementation of the project. “The company will focus on carbon trade preparation for the submission of its Forest Reference Emissions level to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). This will be done in January 2020 through the EPA,” he added Also read:Egypt’s MSMEDA and IDA sign deal for construction of Industrial parks in 12 governorates The remaining two regional offices for region two (Voinjama, Lofa County), and region Four Zwedru, Grand Gedeh County will be constructed based on the availability of funds. When completed, the project will co-host FDA and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The Project is also aimed at improving the management of Liberia’s forest, and increasing benefit sharing for communities in the targeted forest landscapes.