A high-efficient and environmental crushing equipment can improve the efficiency of the whole production line and increase the income of an enterprise. The following three principles and ten factors can help users choose suitable crusher. The basic principles of crusher selection. Basic principles of crusher selection 1.The period of operation For projects with long construction period and relatively concentrated amount of crushed stone, fixed joint crushing and screening equipment should be used; for projects with short construction period and relatively scattered amount of crushed stone, especially for long linear projects such as highways, mobile combined crushing and screening equipment is selected. 2.The specification of stone materials If the size of the stone material is large, the stone jaw crusher machine can be used as the primary crushing equipment, when the stone material size is required strictly, it is necessary to select the joint crushing and screening equipment, such as the jaw crusher, cone crusher or impact crusher and hammer crusher, and is matched with screening equipment of certain size and specifications. 3.The nature of stone materials When crushing hard or medium hard stone materials, the jaw crushing equipment should be selected as the primary crushing equipment. When crushing soft stone, the cone crusher, impact crusher or hammer crusher can be directly used. 10 Factors to consider when choosing a crushing equipment The prior expenditure is the necessary and prior investment to support the normal operation of machine. The expenditure is the costs of recruitment and training of related personnel, the packaging, calibration and certification of machines, etc. The price and payment methods of machine are usually considered by the enterprises with financial constraint, which are directly related to the continuity of the project. The installation cost includes the cost of reinforcing steel and concrete materials, labor and the lifting equipment. In addition to the working and idleness costs of the crushing and screening system and the maintenance and repair costs of the equipment, the blasting production and operation costs associated with the machine should be included. The reliability of use is an important factor for evaluating the technique and performance of equipment. In general, it is required that the machine can work for 1,500 to 2,000 hours continuously without any mechanical failure. If the working environment is terrible, the reliability is more important. China fote manufacturer has a worldwide reputation and it is a trusted supplier to customers. The manufacturing technique is an important prerequisite for ensuring the reliability of equipment. It reflects and measures the technical and management level of the manufacturer. Generally, according to the production efficiency, a positive and negative production capacity can be determined, that is, the upper and lower limits of equipment production capacity that are compatible with the project can be determined. There is a certain difference between the actual production capacity of the equipment and the theoretical production capacity, which varies with the changes in the types, hardness, and specifications of the crushed materials. The actual production capacity should be higher than the average production capacity of the project to ensure a certain surplus of production capacity. The degree of automation is a basic indicator reflecting the technical level of the equipment itself. The automatical level of machine is a concentrated expression of the technological development level of the entire manufacturing enterprise. Choose the representative stone for analysis of lithofacies and chemical components and species identification, such as limestone, granite, basalt and the types and content of the main mineral, accessory mineral and secondary mineral contained in stones. When it comes to strength, it generally, means the uniaxial compressive strength. It can be divided into four types: soft rock (<40MPa), secondary hard rock (40-100MPa), hard rock (100-160MPa), and super-hard rock (160-250Mpa). Hardness is usually the moh’s hardness, indicating the ability of minerals to resist external mechanical force. The total output is generally based on how many tons of stone are crushed per hour. If the annual or monthly output is used as the standard, it is required to determine the annual working day and daily working time in order to determine the hourly workload, that is, the expected production efficiency. If the crushing and screening equipment is installed at a site with a certain slope, it is beneficial to reduce the earthwork. When selecting equipment, the focus is on the natural drop height of the feeding machine and equipment, as well as the shape and space of the equipment installation floor. The site range is usually determined by factors such as equipment installation floor space, feed and discharge ports, product storage methods, product specifications and storage, generator room, warehouse, living facilities, guard room, etc. 5.Foundation and pillar The supporting methods of the crushing and screening equipment, the difficulty of installation and the construction amount of the steel and concrete are also the factors to be considered when selecting the machine. The movable steel structure has the advantages of simple construction, easy assembly and disassembly, rapid transition, etc which is suitable for long-term road projects with scattered stone materials. 1.Source and channel of supply If the equipment is leased, it refers to the equipment rented channel; if it is purchased, it refers to the equipment agent or manufacturer. When selecting equipment, it should be fully analyzed according to the regional differences in the use environment (such as Asia or Africa), the degree of market development, the versatility of the repaired parts and the supply channels in the construction. The supply of repair parts here is not only the supply of parts in the after-sales service, but it also includes the difficulty of obtaining parts in addition to the after-sales service organization. In principle, the shorter delivery or arrival period is the better, but for the equipment selected or ordered, the manufacturer should have sufficient time to produce without affecting the progress of the whole project, so as to avoid the phenomenon of catch-up and affecting the quality of equipment manufacturing. Different transportation methods bear different costs, and the risks caused by transportation are also different. Whether transportation has special requirements or not also reflects the design level of the manufacturing company. Maintainability refers to the accessibility of maintenance, the interchangeability of parts, and the error-proof design for maintenance. In the implementation process, in order to improve the utilization rate of the machine, it is often required that mechanical failure can be handled on site. This requires that the machine must be disassembled and installed easily, the supply of spare parts must be reliable and interchangeable, and special tools for special parts should be provided, etc. 8.Compatibility of equipment The compatibility between the equipment introduced and the features of the project. Compatibility in the machine group: the compatibility among the equipment introduced and existing devices, such as the loader, dumper, etc., and the impact on the existing devices. The machine must have comfortable operating conditions, wide visibility and good air conditioning and ventilation. It reflects the operability and automation of the equipment. 10.Environment requirements It refers to the degree of environmental pollution, that is, the impact degree of equipment installation and operation on the surrounding environment, mainly reflected in two aspects, dust and noise. 