Yanmar has announced the establishment of Yanmar Energy System Europe GmbH (YESE), a full-service energy company that will provide advanced, full-service solutions to customers in Europe in gas-powered generation, and heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC). The establishment of the company follows the Eschenfelder KKU Group’s move to join the Yanmar Group in April 2019. As a specialist in the design, engineering, distribution and installation of resource-saving refrigeration, cooling and heating solutions for trade and industry, KKU joined with Yanmar group company, Yanmar Energy Systems Co. Ltd (YES), a leading force in development, production and distribution of gas engine heat pumps, chiller and cogeneration solutions for the HVAC industry worldwide, to provide development and manufacturing capabilities that enable production of tailormade solutions for complicated situations where standard solutions fall short. “The establishment of this new company consolidates Yanmar’s wide-ranging energy systems portfolio and capabilities under the one roof,” said YESE CEO Yosuke Tajima. “We can now offer full-service, customized solutions to customers across a broad spectrum of gas-powered generation and HVAC applications.” He added: “This move further positions Yanmar for significant growth in European markets by realizing synergies between company functions and optimizing pan-European business management.” Headquartered in Marl, Germany, the new entity will enable Yanmar to strengthen its development activities to further expand tailor made solutions for its energy customers in Germany and the rest of Europe. With beginnings in Osaka, Japan, in 1912, Yanmar was the first to succeed in making a compact diesel engine of a practical size in 1933. Then, with industrial diesel engines as the cornerstone of its enterprise, Yanmar has continued to expand its product range, services, and expertise to deliver total solutions as an industrial equipment manufacturer. As a provider of small and large engines, agricultural machinery and facilities, construction equipment, energy systems, marine equipment, machine tools, and components, Yanmar’s global business operations span seven domains. On land, at sea, and in the city, Yanmar’s mission of “providing sustainable solutions focused on the challenges customers face, in food production and harnessing power, thereby enriching people’s lives for all our tomorrows” is a testament to Yanmar’s determination to provide us with “A Sustainable Future.” Yanmar Energy System Europe GmbH (YESE) is a subsidiary of Yanmar group company: Yanmar Energy Systems Co., Ltd. With a focus on the European market, YESE specializes in the design, engineering, distribution and installation of resource-saving gas-powered generation, refrigeration, cooling and heating solutions for trade and industry.