Yunipat Distributors Zambia, suppliers of Fibertex geotextiles and Van Dyck Carpet’s Easi-Grass artificial grass, has delivered fully upgraded sports facilities at the Lusaka International Community School in Lusaka. The company was working as the project managers at this development whose scope of work involved the preparation of ground works, construction of the concrete footing and installation of a drainage system and artificial turf. Patrizio Urzi, the managing director at Yunipat Distributors Zambia said that the most critical part of the entire project was the design and installation of the drainage system which maximizes the high flow of water hence enabling the use of the pitch during and immediately after heavy rains. The drainage system enhances integrity of the pitch, significantly extending its service and life span. The creation of the system involved installation of a Fibertex F34 geotextile nonwoven separation layer onto the base to stabilize the surface. A herringbone system of DN160 Drainex perforated subsoil drainage pipes was then mounted on top of the geotextile and covered with 25 mm stone aggregate and ≤ 5 mm fine crusher run to prepare for the top and final layer. All these materials allow alluvial water to drain through the stone medium, into the drainpipes and away from the sports area. Instead of natural grass, Easi-Grass, which is a high-quality artificial turf with durability and enhanced aesthetics, was selected for this project. This maintenance-free grass is a water and energy saver and it can be played on in all weather conditions with no risk of damage, unlike natural grass. Separation, filtration, drainage, protection, reinforcement and stress relieving in construction and building works are the key functions of Fibertex geotextiles. These permeable materials are placed between different layers of a structure to prevent migration and mixing of components, allowing free movement of water, while preserving the integrity of the adjacent layers. Consequently, this intensifies bearing capacity and provides long-term stability of the foundation layers. Fibertex geotextiles are suitable for all filtration and drainage systems, including drainage pipes, drainage trenches, surface drains and building drains. Yunipat Distributors Zambia, which has completed similar astro installations at many sporting facilities in Zambia, specializes in the supply and support of a wide range of products for the construction and mining sectors. The company also services the DIY and commercial markets in Zambia. 