Ultrachem Inc. announces a complete line of air compressor oils for the construction industry. The produc tline-up includes petroleum oils, partial synthetics and 100% synthetic compressor oils for use in rotary screw compressors, rotary vane compressors and reciprocating compressors – whether permanently installed or portables.These lubricants offer the best protection and longevity that you can expect from synthetic lubricants. Less downtime means more uptime and increased profits. As an affiliate of FUCHS Petrolub, Ultrachem has the backing of the largest independent lubricants company, Ultrachem carries over 50 years of experience formulating and marketing premium syntheticlubricants of all types.Ultrachem was established in 1965 to provide industrial synthetic fluid solutions to its worldwide business partners and has developed a long-standing reputation for delivering industry leading products, service and reliability you can trust. Corporate headquarters and manufacturing are located in Delaware—a center for superior technological expertise. Ultrachem’s mission is to provide a versatile, responsive and cost effective alternative to those sources of lubricant and oil supply which are divisions of large chemical or major oil companies. Synthetic lubricants can be used in applications where petroleum lubricants simply won’t function effectively. Specifically, Ultrachem’s synthetic lubricants are the perfect answer for industrial maintenance needs. These products are specially designed to solve costly plant lubrication problems. This means reduced lubrication intervals, longer equipment life, less down time, and reduced maintenance costs. Ultrachem’s synthetic lubricants also offer versatility for manufacturers of a wide range of consumer products. From impregnating oils for powder metal sleeve bearings to a unique selection of food grade greases, OEM applications are met with confidence and cost efficiency. Ultrachem is committed to always providing quality products and personalized service. 