The county government of Kisumu in Kenya is set to construct a US $24.068m small traders’ commercial center. The move is meant to accommodate traders who were displaced during the recent demolition of structures erected illegally on Kenya Railways land. The demolition came as a move by the Kenya railways to acquire land that would be used for the expansion of Kisumu port two months ago. It is estimated that over 3, 000 traders were displaced following the exercise, forcing them to start hawking and putting up temporary structures. Also Read: Plans to revitalise Kisumu’s Waterfront in Kenya picks up pace Governor Prof. Anyang Nyong’o mentioned that the ultra-modern center will be erected on unused Kenya railways cooperation land. “We have been in talks with the cooperation and formed a joint task force that is looking into all Kenya Railways grabbed land that we seek to repossess and use for the development of the small traders’ commercial center,” he said. The Director of Communications in the office of the Governor, Aloice  Ager said that the county government will carry out the project in collaboration with development partners. He also mentioned that the proposal has been shared with various partners and he is optimistic that the construction will begin soon. Upon completion of the project, traders within and around the region will have something to smile about as the ultra-modern center will have the capacity to accommodate up to 10, 000 of them and offering a long lasting solution to the challenges they have been facing. The structure will be equipped with ablution blocks, sheds, restaurants and social amenities to ensure that they operate in a conducive environment. On the other end the County government is also in the process of completing construction of 500 sheds behind Jomo Kenyatta Sports Grounds to accommodate some more traders. Moreover, the governor also mentioned that additional funds have been put aside in this financial year’s budget for modernization of existing markets including Jubilee and Kibuye. 