The new Viu/XViu bathroom range by sieger design features geometric contours that connect with gently curved lines, producing unique, pure sculptural forms. Happy D.2 Plus and sieger design are an all-round hit. The new mirrors with lighting and the further evolution of the range’s designs are marked out by their archetypal open oval. The Cape Cod series by Designer Philippe Starck affords exceptional diversity. The wash bowl options – round, square or tri-oval – are made from high-grade porcelain and have subtle, extremely thin edges just 5 mm thick. This is made possible by the innovative material DuraCeram®. Viu is a new bathroom series inspiring with soft, organic forms that contrast with precise geometry. Sophisticated details, interesting combinations of materials, a previously unattainable level of perfection right down to the last detail, and comfort-enhancing technologies come together to produce a harmonious whole. The alternative variants for the washing area, with furniture washbasin, built-in washbasin, or above-counter washbasin and matching vanity unit with pull-out compartment or two drawers, feature striking V-shaped lateral aluminum profiles. Varied Fully glazed from beneath, the Viu washbasins, available in five sizes as well as a handrinse basin, are also ideally suited as individual solutions. Alternative variants for the washing area, with furniture washbasin, built-in washbasin, or above-counter washbasin and matching XViu vanity unit create storage space. The Viu ceramics can also be combined with the XSquare, L-Cube and Brioso furniture series. Above-counter basins The interior features gentle organic curves with a spacious inner basin showing an advantage to the above-counter version. A uniform formal style is essential for a harmonious overall look in the bathroom. Whether with clear edges, soft curves or a mixture of the two – the Duravit ranges lend individual flair to any bathroom thanks to their timeless yet modern contours – even on rectangular designs.