United Transformers Electric Company (Utec), a subsidiary of Bawan Holdings, was founded in 2001 as a limited liability company. Over the past decade, Utec has built a strong presence in the local, regional and international markets as a leading company in the field of manufacturing distribution transformers and switch-gears. The company is a joint venture between “Bawan” and “Wilson Transformers”, a leading manufacturer of power and distribution transformers in Australia since 1933. Utec applies the most advanced industrial technologies, taking advantage of the technical cooperation agreement with “Wilson Transformers” in Australia. The company focuses its efforts on the production of a full range of modern electrical hermetically sealed transformers, integrally filled with oil. The company also works on designing and manufacturing custom-made products to meet the customer’s needs of various key sectors. The company is committed to achieve the highest levels of customer satisfaction by providing services and products that meet the expectations of customers in terms of quality, efficiency, and by matching the best manufacturing practices, the highest international standards and practices to ensure the highest levels of insulation and operational efficiency for its electrical transformers. These have allowed the company to acquire many of the world’s most prestigious certifications. Utec has succeeded in supplying local, regional and international markets with high-quality distribution transformers. The firm’s products are very popular regionally and internationally, as they are exported to major neighboring markets, particularly in the GCC, as well as to some markets in the Middle East, Africa and Europe. Pole-mounted distribution transformers Pole-mounted distribution transformers are mounted above ground on poles. These transformers are manufactured to standard designs, primarily for power distribution companies. These transformers typically service urban and rural residential and commercial loads. Utec’s Pole Mounted Transformers are oil immersed hermetically sealed type which are designed, manufactured and tested according to IEC 60076 and its equivalent standards. The tank is designed to accommodate expansion of oil during loading through the use of corrugated steel sheets. The Primary bushings are provided on the bolted top cover, while Secondary bushings on side wall enclosed by air insulated cable box. Both Primary and Secondary bushings can also be provided on top cover as per required specification. Ground / Pad-mounted transformers Pad-mounted transformers are generally mounted on the ground for underground distribution networks. These types of transformers are generally used for urban and rural residential, commercial and industrial loads.  These units are generally equipped with cable boxes or compartments for terminating the cables on HV and LV bushing terminals. Three pre-engineered arrangements are available, determined by the customer requirement and standard: Utec’s Pad Mounted Transformers are oil immersed, generally hermetically sealed type. The tank is designed to accommodate expansion of oil during loading through the use of corrugated steel sheets. Sealed type tanks with detachable radiators  having gas space which is normally filled with Nitrogen on top of oil  or free breathing type having oil conservator can also be offered as per customer requirement. Substation Transformers These types of transformers are an integral part of compact substations which fully encloses a transformer, HV and LV connections or switchgear, and is shipped to site fully assembled. These are widely used in areas where underground power distribution is required, such as in residential, commercial and industrial developments.  Utec’s Substation Distribution Transformers are oil immersed hermetically sealed type. Flexible corrugated tank walls or radiators enable sufficient cooling of the transformer during operation. Generally HV and LV bushings are mounted on bolted top cover. HV bushings are Plug-In type while LV flat bars type. The Porcelain type bushings can also be supplied as per customer requirement. Unit/Package substations transformers Unit/Package substations are coordinated assembly consisting of three phase transformer, HV ring main unit and LV distribution panel. These are widely used in areas where underground power distribution is required, such as in residential, commercial and industrial developments. Utec’s unit/package substation transformers are oil immersed hermetically sealed type. Flexible corrugated tank walls enable sufficient cooling of the transformer and compensate for changes in the oil volume due to temperature variations during operation. Special Application Transformers Utec also manufactures a range of other special application transformers like: The windings of the above transformers are generally made up of copper. However, Aluminum windings can also be offered. All the standard designs have been proven by type testing including impulse, temperature rise, sound level and short circuit tests. 