The newly redeveloped Fourways Mall in South Africa has officially opened its doors to the public. JSE-listed Accelerate Property Fund performed the launch ceremony. The Fourways Mall built 23 years ago sits on the outskirts of the Johannesburg metropolis, putting it in the prime spot between Roodepoort and Sandton. The expansion used the area’s existing footprint but joined the existing mall with the ‘Game Centre’ as well as the smaller ‘Fourways View’ centre. The renovation works entailed doubling the size of the mall from 85,000m² to 178,000m², making it the largest shopping centre in the country, overtaking Pretoria’s Menlyn Park at 169,000m², Sandton City, the 131,000m² Mall of Africa in Waterfall and the 166,636m² Gateway Theatre of Shopping in Durban. Fourways Mall now has more than 250 new brands and stores added to the retail mix, offering a staggering total of 450 shops. In addition, the mall now provides parking for more than 8,000 vehicles around its 52 entrances. Colourful nodes will help shoppers navigate through the maze of stores. Also Read:Phase one of Rustenburg Mall in South Africa to be complete by 2021 The mall boasts a majestic centre-court area spanning four levels high that brings the entire shopping centre together. The centre has 52 entrance points to the new mall for both vehicles and pedestrians. The interior of the existing Fourways Mall also got a facelift to match the new development. There is also an underground taxi-terminal which will take the congestion off William Nicol while giving Fourways commuters a safe space to catch taxis. According to Accelerate Property Fund’s Chief Executive, Michael Georgiou the master plan for Fourways Mall complements plans by the local council to position the Fourways area as a new Central Business District (CBD). US $27m was spent on the road upgrades in the area to support the massive undertaking, and to assist in any traffic congestion. “The launch of Fourways Mall is a 10-year vision which is finally being realized. The refurbishment and expansion project took nearly four years to complete,” said Michael.