Nigeria has commenced electrification project in Nasarawa State. The chairman of the council area, Adamu Adi, inaugurated execution of the project and said the project has began as result of financial autonomy granted to local government areas in the country. The project which is under the Abuja Feeding Scheme, involves a 24 Kilometres electricity connection from the 330KVA national grid to Giza and Kadarko towns. Mr Adamu Adi gave a breakdown of the projects earmarked for execution by the local council area as roofing of the Osana of Keana palace, construction of the Osoku’s palace, connecting Giza and Kadarko towns with the 330KVA national grid, construction of Kwara – Angwan Sida, Aloshi town and Kadarko market side road. Also Read:Zimbabwe to receive US $42m to boost electricity The Abuja Feeding Scheme’s purpose is to solve the transmission problem in Abuja for the next 20 years. Abuja currently has only two 330kV substations and five 132kV substations. Under the programme, Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN)  will build five new transmission substations in the capital city within 24 months to stabilize electricity supply in the area. the scheme comprises two 330 kilovolt (kV) substations and three 132kV substations, and will take care of power supply challenges in the city. “This project will include the construction of substations in Lokogoma, Gwarinpa, Kuje, Apo and Lugbe. Meanwhile the substations will be complemented by the construction of a new electricity transmission route from Lafia in Nasarawa State to Abuja, so as to provide the FCT with added power supply advantage,” said Managing Director of TCN, Mr. Usman Mohammed. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Power, Mr. Louis Edozien, said the five substations will add 624MW wheeling capacity to the TCN which could be supplied to residents and businesses in and around Abuja. According to The Managing Director of the project consultancy firm, OskaJo and Partners, Mr. Joseph Uujamhan, three contractors would handle the project. TBEA and Energo Projekt will build the 330kV transmission lines from Lafia in Nasarawa State to New Apo, then to Old Apo 132/33KV substation, to connect to new substations at Lubge and Kuje in Abuja. Grid Solutions will build two 330kV substations in New Apo and Lugbe with 600MVA transformer. Sieyuan-Sac will build three 132kV substations in Lokogoma, Kuje and Dawaki (Gwarimpa) area of Abuja. 