Phase one of the Rustenburg Mall project in South Africa is set to be completed in April 2021. The sod-turning ceremony took place early last month, celebrating the commencement of bulk earthworks on the new property. The development aims to address the current scattered retail shopping offering in the area, with a focus on a family-friendly shopping experience. Moolman Group, Twin City and JB Holdings joined forces for the project. Also Read:Construction of US $22.8bn Twin Palms mall in Zambia complete The mall is located near the Rustenburg CBD, located 500 metres from the main taxi rank. Phase one of the development will accommodate approximately 120 retailers. It will serve more than 80,000 households in the primary trade area, which includes established suburbs such as Geelhoutpark, Proteapark, Karlienpark and the newer suburbs of Tlhabane and Tlhabane West. The current road infrastructure around the development will be enhanced and new roads will boost access and traffic flow in the area. Hedeira and Watsonia Roads will be extended to improve access from the surrounding suburbs and main arterials will stem from the Rustenburg CBD to provide easy access to motorists, buses and taxis. “The project will be a one-stop solution, providing shoppers with a convenient and safe shopping environment. It will make a positive contribution to the South African job market by creating 800 jobs in the construction phase; and with more than 75% of the first phase gross lettable area already committed for occupation by keen retailers, 1000 permanent jobs will be created once the mall is open and trading,” said Steph Beyers from the Moolman Group. Dis-Chem, Shoprite, Checkers, Game and Woolworths will be the anchor tenants at Rustenburg Mall. Other tenants will include Cape Union Mart, Old Khaki, Tread & Miller, Keedo, Foschini, Fabiani, G-Star, American Swiss, Truworths, Identity, Kurt Geiger, Spitz, Contempo, Clicks, Mr Price Home, Miladys, Mr Price Apparel, Mr Price Sport, Totalsports, Exact, Sportscene, Markham, The Fix, Sterns, Cross Trainer, Jam Clothing, Pep, Ackermans, Power Clothing, Beaver Canoe, Legit, Side Step, Skipper Bar, Dodos, Sheet Street, Rand Outfitters, Chicken Licken, Debonairs, Roots Butchery, ABSA, Nedbank and Capitec Bank.