An updated range of key products from SE Controls Africa has now been included on leading online specification and construction products database, AutoSpec.co.za, for use in smoke control and environment ventilation projects. Developed by NDTec, AutoSpec provides architects, quantity surveyors and other construction industry professionals with an easy to use method of searching and selecting products to meet their own specifications from its extensive online product library, which represents hundreds of leading South African manufacturers. SE Controls Africa currently has 11 products listed on AutoSpec, which features its SECO single and twin chain actuators, the VECA 20 actuator and HAHN glass casement louvre, for smoke ventilation projects, alongside selected control and sensor products from its extensive range. Sonja Robertse, SE Controls Africa’s Marketing Manager, said: “AutoSpec is an extremely useful and valuable tool for architects and other specifiers, as it allows them to create their own unique specification and then find products that meet their requirements, as well as providing them with expert product advice.” She added: “From our perspective, it provides an excellent platform for our products to be viewed and specified, allowing us to compete even more effectively in a key market place. Even though we also have a presence on other product directories, such as Specifile.co.za, AutoSpec is a valuable business tool for us.” Visit Autospec to view the latest online product details and information from SE Controls. SE Controls Africa specialises in the design, project management and installation of advanced smoke ventilation and natural ventilation solutions to meet the needs of architects, contractors, building services engineers and facilities managers worldwide and covers the whole of the African continent with offices in Durban and Johannesburg, South Africa. The SE Controls group has worked on some prestigious projects in various countries around the world including South Africa, UK, China and India. Recent completed projects include the South African Department of Environmental Affairs, University of Witwatersrand and Sci-Bono Discovery Centre. Previous projects include the 2012 London Olympic Velodrome, Kai Tak Cruise Terminal in Hong Kong and RIBA awarding winning projects. 