Architecture is a blend of technology and art. Since buildings and other structures are centers of human activity, architecture is similar to engineering in that efficiency is an important element of architectural designs. The following are top architectural firms in USA Gensler is widely recognized as the world’s leading collaborative design firm, not just the largest. They are organized around each client relationship. Client needs, expectations, and strategy provide the context for every project they carry out together. Whatever their size, the clients needs they are set up to deliver. Gensler architecture reflects their knowledge of how people and organizations use and experience place and space. They work collaboratively with clients, communities and end users to create buildings that work well on every level, inside and out. Gensler’s brand designers use words and images to orchestrate compelling experiences that lead to marketplace differentiation and brand preference. their approach combines design and architecture expertise with a unique point of view and strong communications skill set. Since its establishment in 1970, Gensler have embarked on a number of remarkable projects including; designing an energy-efficient “office of the future” for Pacific Gas & Electric, the first U.S. office building to use under-floor air distribution, and later the first retail roll out prototype, data center and car dealership to earn LEED® certifications. Recognizing these pioneering achievements, the U.S. Green Building Council presented us its Leadership Award for Organizational Excellence in 2005. AECOM Technology Corp. AECOM is a global network of experts working with clients, communities and colleagues to develop and implement innovative solutions to the world’s most complex challenges. From design and engineering to construction and management, AECOM’s technical knowledge, local connections and broad market experience allow them to deliver specialized services across the entire project life cycle. We connect expertise across services, markets, and geographies to deliver transformative outcomes. Worldwide, we design, build, finance, operate and manage projects and programs that unlock opportunities, protect our environment and improve people’s lives. Perkins+Will was founded in Chicago by Lawrence Perkins and Philip Will and attracted national attention in 1940 with the Crow Island School in Winnetka, Illinois, designed in association with Eliel Saarinen and Eero Saarinen. The firm prides itself of having more Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) accredited professionals than any other design firm in North America. The company’s uniqueness is seen in their sustainable, high performance, environmentally conscious spaces and places that they have designed. HKS architects is an american international architecture firm headquartered in dallas, texas. HKS was founded in 1939 by Harwood k. smith. It has since expanded its branches across the world. As of 2015, the firm employs more than 1000 people, making it one of the largest architectural firms in the United States and has completed services on structures valued in excess of US $69bn, with more than US $12bn of construction currently underway. ZGF Architects is a design firm with an intentionally diverse portfolio including healthcare and research facilities, academic buildings, mixed-use developments, corporate campuses, museums, transportation facilities and ecodistricts. The company’s design portfolio spans diverse typologies including corporate and workplace, commercial and mixed-use, healthcare and wellness, scientific research and planning, higher education and urban design. In addition to receiving more than 1000 design awards, ZGF has been honored with the American Institute of Architects’ highest honor, the Architecture Firm Award, recognized for “creatively transforming client needs and aspirations into elegant, inventive architectural form, and establishing a standard of excellence and expectation of quality to which other firms aspire.” Since their establishment ZGF Architects’ focus has always been on sustainable architecture and stewardship of the built environment. Their diversity of design practice is fostered by culture of cross-pollination and collaboration, empowering our teams to problem-solve in a holistic way. Each individual’s unique perspective and experience brings an opportunity for greater design innovation and novel solutions. 