Action Construction Equipment Ltd. (ACE) has always believed in introducing new models in the pursuit of innovation and customer interest. Recently, ACE has expanded its product portfolio with the addition of next generation innovative and intelligent Cranes. With the launch of NX360° SLEW CUM PICK ‘N’ CARRY CRANE, ACE presents the Future of Cranes in India. The dual purpose NX360° Slew crane with Pick ‘N’ Carry duty is a boon for various jobs at compact spaces such as Metro, Bridges, Flyovers, Inside Factories etc. Loaded with safety features such as SLI (Safe Load Indicator with cutoff), Reverse Camera, Hoise Failure Protection and Safety Breaks on Hoist etc. it provides precise and easy handling as well as erection of jobs, faster operations and seamless operations across Rough Terrain. NX360° is a complete value for money product for the customers as it offers the advantage of two distinct operations at the price of one machine, 50% lower operation and maintenance cost as compared with similar NX360° Slew Cranes. The versatile Crane can be used for various jobs such as Loading, Unloading, Erection & Placement of material at various Project & Construction Sites such as Industrial construction, Refinery/Petrochemical, Railway/MonoRail, Bridges/ Flyovers, Power Plant in different industries such as Chemical, Power, Fertilizers, Cement, Mining, CFS/ICD, Fabrication, Ship Yards, Defence, Plywood, Stone/Granite, Cable Manufacturer and Transmission Towers. ABOUT ACE Incorporated in 1995, ACE- Action Construction Equipment Ltd. is India’s leading material handling and construction equipment manufacturing company. With a dominant market share of around 63%, ACE is the No. 1 crane manufacturer in India and world’s largest manufacturer in pick and carry cranes category. The company is committed towards “Lifting India’s Growth”, the company is continuously striving towards offering innovative products integrated with excellent customer service and robust sales and support network across the globe. ACE R&D Center based at Faridabad is fully-equipped with modern facilities, dedicated towards development and speedy commercialization of globally competitive products. 