Being a gateway to the lighting industry and a leading supplier and distributor for the lighting market, HJ Lighting Agencies was established in 1990 in Durban and has since grown to horizons far beyond expectations. As a result of excellence in client service and satisfaction, the company has been able to gain and foster customer loyalty through the generations. The company has specialized in Architectural, commercial, domestic and industrial lighting, and through the years sound relations have been established with the following leading suppliers in South Africa: Spazio Lighting, Radiant Lighting, Bright Star Lighting, Eurolux, Osram, Clipsal and Phillips to name a few. The company’s products are imported from the east / not many local manufacturers in South Africa. The company’s growing range of imported light fittings represent the most unique and stylish products available globally, catering to a wide spectrum of lighting enthusiasts. Through supplying quality service over the years, the company has established both friendly and continued relationships with their customers, enabling them to open our up-market Ja Showroom in the country. The company’s showrooms are designed to simulate the environments in which light fittings are typically placed, thus facilitating decision making. Lighting in its correct application can enhance both the aesthetics and atmosphere of a space, be it a cosy bedroom or a large warehouse.The showroom has made their products more easily accessible to a wider audience, both nationally and throughout Africa. The company is able to reserve the right to change, discontinue or replace any items that appear in this catalogue. Specifications, sizes and colours shown in our catalogue, could vary from the actual product and are subject to change. The company’s products are very popular by professional from all walks of life; it makes the perfect stage effect with others stage lighting products. The company has excellent quality products and the best after-sales service. The company aims to give their customers the best satisfaction in their products. Features of hj lighting products; LED light bulbs use only 2-17 watts of electricity (1/3rd to 1/30th of Incandescent or CFL). LED bulbs used in fixtures inside the home save electricity, remain cool. LED bulbs last up to 10 times as long as compact fluorescent and far longer than typical incandescent. LEDs do not have a filament; they are not damaged under circumstances LEDs are initially expensive; the cost is recouped over time and in battery savings. Cost of new LED bulbs has gone down considerably in the last few years.