Borum organized a series of events around China in collaboration with 3M that has the aim of encouraging the use of both flat and profiled high-quality thermoplastic markings on Chinese roads. The events started in Nanning, the capital of Guangxi province, and continued 350 km away in Luzhai with more to follow. The events consisted of both seminars presenting how this type of line markings can help improve traffic guidance & safety, as well as live demos of a Borum line marking machine applying various thermoplastic flat lines and profiled marking patterns in selected locations. Furthermore, 3M introduced their reflective elements designed for increased visibility of lines during rainy conditions by maintaining high retro-reflection levels when submerged under water. With more than 150 guests from road authorities, government agencies, road maintenance contractors, and traffic police, the events are off to a good start and show immense potential for efforts being taken in this direction. During some of the demos, the Borum machine also demonstrated examples of profiled markings. Due to the technology and design of the machine’s line marking equipment, this was able to be done quickly, in one run. The machine’s thermoplastic extruder equipment is constructed from an assembly of shutters (openings) – think LEGO blocks – which make it possible for such patterns to be applied and switched between without the need of other additional equipment or mechanical changes. The process is digitally controlled from the machine’s control unit, the LineMaster computer. The easy and fast change between patterns is possible thanks to the LineMaster computer, which can individually control the equipment’s shutters. Overall, the machine and equipment are designed to make the application process straightforward and ensure minimum timeout. This can facilitate a speedy implementation of profiled road marking at a large scale and help authorities with accelerating their efforts in improving road safety. Not all lines are the same! Therefore, it is important to know the differences in order to ensure the best outcome.

Flat lines are applied in the form of a continuous or interrupted fully covered line in up 2 mm in thickness.
Profiled markings (also called structured or audible markings) have a part of the surface raised over the road level. This feature offers various advantages as high visibility in wet conditions and at night that lead to increased road safety. The drainage effect of the profiled markings ensures that rainwater will easily drain away from the lines. As a result, the lines are able to maintain high reflective values in rainy weather. This is possible thanks to the structure that allows the water to drain. Due to their shape and vertical walls, as well as the possibility of pre-mixing glass beads, profiled lines have a higher retro-reflective level compared to flat lines. This increases the visibility in poorly illuminated areas and during night time. Furthermore, the profiled nature of the road marking produces a noise when driven over that will warn the driver against driving off the road. Therefore, profiled markings are often used on roads with high traffic and low night visibility as highways and motorways. With more demos and seminars to follow, we hope to see a rapid start in the application of high-quality road markings on Chinese roads! The benefits of such line types have been proven repeatedly in many countries around the world. Therefore, we believe this can play an important role in decreasing road accidents and generally increasing traffic safety in China.