Established in India in the year 1988 as a single product, mild steel wire-drawing unit with a capacity of 3000 Mt per annum, H. D. Wires Private Limited, is currently one of the world renowned manufacturers, suppliers and traders of a wide variety of Galvanized Steel Tape, Galvanized Iron/Steel wires, Black Annealing Wires / Galvanized wire for Armoring wires manufactured in their plant that complies to IS, ASTM and various international standards. The company’s product collection in particular encompasses; Flat Cable Armoring Wires, Round Cable Armoring Wires, and Galvanized Steel Tape, Hot Dip Galvanized Steel Wires for Construction and Electricity and Black annealing wires as well as Aluminum Conductor Steel Reinforced, which are proffered in a diversified range of specifications to cater for the several demands of their esteemed purchasers in the business. Applauded and welcomed for its tough construction, durability, excellent resistance to corrosion, lightweight, ease of installation and minimal maintenance, the series is highly asked for. Mentioned below is the company’s Galvanized Steel cable, Hot Dipped Galvanized Wires and Galvanized Wire for Armoring Cable (Round / Flat) size and coating specifications.     Backed up by a magnificent, extremely spacious infrastructure facility furnished with a series of machines, tools and equipment that help the company in obstruction-free production, storage and loading & un-loading of the proffered assortment in addition to an efficient team under the incomparable mentorship of Mr. Dilip Dev who calls for moral values & principles and advocates the involvement in transparent and ethical business dealings only, the company has gained an unmatched reputation in the wire market. D. Wires Private Limited is constantly guided and regularly motivated and inspired to plan strategies for accomplishing the organizational goals as well as customer satisfaction and it is committed to maintain this position in the future. The company is regularly supplying its products to International markets such as UAE, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, and Nepal among others and it is currently seeking partnership with buyers, importers and distributors for their Galvanized Steel Tape / Galvanized Steel Wires / Black annealing wires in the Kenya Market. 