• A smart water system prevents the use of a high number of plastic water bottles every year and reduces CO2 emissions. • Users can choose among still, medium and sparkling and even add magnesium to their water – all perfectly chilled and delivered by a single faucet • The state-of-the-art filter system can get rid of chlorine, biocides, pesticides, and bacteria in geographical regions with insufficient water quality Beirut, 1st August 2019. The bottled water market globally is rapidly growing with approximate 600 million households consuming bottled water in 2018. Yet with the current discussion on CO2emissions and plastic pollution impacting the health of our planet, the need to reduce the use of bottled water, in particular, that which is served in single-use plastic bottles, has never been more pressing. The good news is that the GROHE Blue Home water system can help anyone start reducing their plastic usage right now. Compatible with even the smallest kitchen space, the system provides deliciously chilled, filtered ‘unbottled’ water. Users can even choose among still, medium and sparkling or use filters that add magnesium – all from a single faucet. In fact, by switching to the GROHE Blue Home water system, families can avoid using a great number of plastic bottles every year without sacrificing quality or taste. Better still, the system also delivers a reduction in CO2 emissions compared to bottled water. Stylish and Safe Along with making it easier for people to live sustainably and take control of their well-being, the GROHE Blue Home water system’s sleek design and available colour finishes make a stylish addition to any kitchen. Meanwhile, the state-of-the-art filter technology captures a range of impurities that can inhibit taste. While taste is the only matter in many regions of the world, there are also countries where water directly from the faucet cannot be used for every purpose due to its insufficient quality. Intended for these regions, the specific GROHE Blue Home Ultrasafe filter version removes not only biocides but also pesticides and bacteria from the water. Thus, in those regions the Ultrasafe filter version can turn previously non-potable water into drinking water, unlocking valuable resources where poor water quality is a problem and thus also contributing to further reducing the reliance on bottled water in these regions. For added convenience and control, users can link their GROHE Blue Home to the GROHE Ondusapp. Compatible with any up-to-date smartphone or tablet device, the app automatically tells them when their system’s filter or CO2bottleneeds changing and lets them order a replacement at the touch of a button. The app can also be used to track water consumption, helping busy households stay on top of how much they’re drinking – thus keeping up with a healthy lifestyle routine. The latest innovation of GROHE Blue Home was just honored by consumers as “Kitchen Innovation of the Year 2019” for its product benefits, user-friendliness, and design: The pull-out spout provides ultimate flexibility and maximum convenience in day-to-day usage. The GROHE Blue Home water system is an integral part of the company’s mission to design and manufacture products that let people responsibly use the planet’s water and energy resources – without having to sacrifice on quality, enjoyment or taste.