K-Tec Earthmovers Inc. announces the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with JDC Corporation of Japan for promoting K-Tec’s efficient earth-moving scrapers in ASEAN Countries.The agreement with JDC Corp, signals K-Tec’s business strategy to geographically diversify and partner with forward-thinking, global enterprises. JDC Corporation whose headquarters is located in Tokyo, Japan, aims to pursue a better relationship between people and the environment to embody its corporate mission ‘For the Better, For the Brighter’. JDC Corporation takes on challenges in every field of construction, based on improving the Earth and creating comfortable environments. JDC Corporation has expertise in Civil construction projects and Solar Fields. JDC Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer, Takeo Asakura notes that “JDC had been seeking a scraper with high-speed performance to achieve a major breakthrough in large earthworks, and finally found that K-Tec is the solution. JDC was established in 1951 and since then, we have been developing our skills with highly efficient machines in earthmoving. We are going to reinforce K-Tec’s performance in Japan and will expand it into Asian countries shortly. The alliance between JDC and K-Tec makes me sure that it will lead us to our great success.” K-Tec Earthmovers Inc. Chief Financial Officer, Mike Palitsky states that “K-Tec is extremely excited to partner with JDC Corporation of Japan and have worked diligently to nurture our relationship. We believe that the signing of this MOU is a major step for our mutual goal to further earthmoving technology in Japan and the ASEAN countries which will greatly benefit both of our organizations now and for the foreseeable future.” K-Tec’s ADT scraper models range in size from 21 to 48 cubic meters, with the ability to be pulled in train configuration for a total heaped capacity of 56 cubic meters in a variety of job environments. K-Tec Earthmovers currently has units working in a wide range of conditions including; road building, site development, energy fields, mining, and civil engineering projects. K-Tec Earthmovers stands behind its scrapers with a market leading 3-Year structural warranty on new scrapers, and can provide convenient and affordable overseas shipping of scrapers inside a sea container. JDC Corporation will continue to collaborate with K-Tec Earthmovers to advance efficient earthmoving operations in the area and discover new sales potential.