Johnson Controls has introduced a flexible solution to the South African market which ensures low field installation costs and new level of insight into building operations. Verasys offers customers in the light commercial market a flexible, one-source procurement solution with advanced technology already embedded for the self-discovery of Smart Equipment. Suitable for single- or multi-zone applications, the new controls system seamlessly connects to a vast range of Smart enabled mechanical and electrical equipment, controls and sensors using wireless configurations that result in cost savings. Verasys accomplishes this without requiring any special programming tools, ensuring low installation costs. “Verasys will provide the required capabilities and secure data to deliver leading-edge, end-to-end control technology to building owners and as a result, customers can take advantage of a new level of insight into building operations and provide facilities that better serve occupants. Verasys will be officially launched in South Africa in the third quarter of 2019” says Mark Redgard, Operations Manager at Johnson Controls in South Africa. Configurable controllers provide simple settings for implementation; however contractors have the option to change defaults to meet their unique requirements. Verasys also empowers them to offer a complete bundled solution of Smart Equipment and controls that work with third-party, package equipment for greater application, flexibility and protection of existing investments. Because the system communicates using BACnet MSTP, Verasys integrates with Metasys or any third-party BACnet system. Contractors will also appreciate new opportunities to service equipment, thanks to optional fault detection and diagnostics that immediately deliver alarm notifications via email or text. For building operators, Verasys provides unprecedented, remote access anytime, anywhere over a secure internet connection using PCs, smartphones and tablets. The controls system connects users to data streams from smart controls in rooftop units, fan coils, zone dampers, heat pumps, refrigeration systems, lighting panels and more. With real-time data, building operators can identify and troubleshoot issues remotely and take advantage of insightful solutions that deliver the quality and value their facilities require. Building operators will also appreciate simple graphics that provide fast access to information, enabling them to take advantage of a new level of insight into building operations. Immediate access to critical information ensures energy efficiency and lower operating costs throughout a building’s life cycle. Users can identify issues before they result in unplanned downtime, and equipment life is extended. The advanced level of control flexibility, including scheduling, alarming, set points and more, also saves time, increases productivity and results in facilities that better serve occupants. Johnson Controls is a global diversified technology and industrial leader serving customers in more than 150 countries. Our 154,000 employees create quality products, services and solutions to optimize energy and operational efficiencies of buildings; lead-acid automotive batteries and advanced batteries for hybrid and electric vehicles; and interior systems for automobiles. Our commitment to sustainability dates back to our roots in 1885, with the invention of the first electric room thermostat. Through our growth strategies and by increasing market share we are committed to delivering value to shareholders and making our customers successful. In 2011, Corporate Responsibility Magazine recognized Johnson Controls as the #1 company in its annual “100 Best Corporate Citizens” list.