VIST Group (a subsidiary of ZYFRA Group) has successfully tested its new autonomous truck, based on the BelAZ-7513R,in operations under extreme temperatures from -50C to +50C. The autonomous truck, based on the BelAZ-7513R, has demonstrated that it can operate normally in extreme temperatures. During a test drive, the truck operated for 24 hours and completed 468 working cycles, covering a distance of 153 kilometers without human intervention. The main purpose of the test drive was to check whether the autonomous system could overcome the problems caused by snow interfering with its radar and LiDAR systems.  The test drive demonstrated that all systems can operate error-free. The updated BelAZ-7513R robotic dump truck compares favorably with earlier models thanks to the introduction of a new generation of intelligent control systems: Robotic dump trucks equipped with VIST Group solutions are already operating at a number of industrial facilities around the globe. In future, there are plans to maximize automation of the truck’s loading capacity as well. The loader itself will be able to build a 3D model of the rock mass to be loaded, determine the order of actions and correlate its movements with the position of the dump truck. The remote operator’s functions will be reduced to issuing expert instructions, thereby enabling one operator to manage 3-5 robotic loaders. These units will improve the overall efficiency of mining operations and give mining companies access to entirely new smart services. The BelAZ-7513R mining dump truck with a payload capacity of 110-136 tonnes is designed for transportation of rock in the severe mining conditions of deep pits, in open-cast mining and on technological haul roads under various climatic conditions (ambient temperatures from -50 to +50 degrees Celsius). The BelAZ-78250 is the biggest loader, with a bucket capacity of 11.5 m3 and a payload capacity of 20-22t. It is equipped with an economical Cummins QST 30-C (1050hp) diesel engine with electronic control and a diagnostic system. Due to its increased dimensions, loading height and bucket capacity, this new machine can load dump trucks with a payload capacity of 90 and 130t. VIST Group is an industry leader in the development and implementation of information technologies for digital mining, metal and other enterprises. In strategic partnership with ZYFRA Group, the company is also developing AI and IoT based solutions for heavy industries. It currently has operations in Kazakhstan, Russia, Morocco, South Africa, Indonesia, Mongolia, Iran, Vietnam, Chile and Peru. VIST Group (a subsidiary of ZYFRA Group) has
successfully tested its new autonomous truck, based on the BelAZ-7513R,in operations under
extreme temperatures from -50C to +50C. 