  Nigerian Breweries Plc (NB) and CrossBoundary Energy Limited have signed a Solar Power Purchase Agreement to construct Nigeria’s first solar powered brewery at Ibadan Brewery. Speaking during the signing ceremony, Jordi Borrut Bel, Managing Director of Nigerian Breweries (NB) Plc said that the solar plant will help power the world class. CrossBoundary Energy will be installing and operating the 650 kW solar plant which is scheduled to be operational this year. “We are delighted to be a pioneer in the adoption of solar energy in Nigeria. The solar plant will help us to deliver on commitments under our Brewing a Better World initiatives and supporting Heineken’s global Drop the C program for renewable energy,” said Jordi Borrut Bel. Also Read:Nigeria to construct US $4 m solar power factory The Heineken’s global Drop the C program for renewable energy is aimed at growing production-related energy sourced from renewables from the current level of 14% to 70% by 2030. The solar plant will supply 1 GWh annually to the Ibadan brewery at a significant discount to its current cost of power while reducing the site’s CO2 emissions by more than 10,000 tonnes over the lifespan of the plant. CrossBoundary Energy will operate the rooftop facility on behalf of Nigerian Breweries as part of a 15-year solar services agreement. Under the agreement, Nigerian Breweries will only pay for solar power produced, receiving a single monthly bill that incorporates all maintenance, monitoring, insurance and financing costs. The solar plant will equally lead to the creation of jobs in the engineering, construction and maintenance sectors, while supporting the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission’s target of having 2,000MW of power capacity from renewables by 2020. Through financing packages like the one being offered by CrossBoundary Energy, Nigeria’s renewable energy sector can provide much-needed green jobs, tap global capital, improve access to affordable, reliable power for businesses, and enable Nigeria to fulfill its enormous economic potential.