According to PMI, project management is the application of knowledge, skills, tools and techniques to project activities to meet the project requirements. Simply put, project management is the practice of identifying an idea, making a plan to unravel that idea, and then carrying out the plan until the idea has been successfully completed. Usually, there are 4 separate phases: – Initiating: The purpose for this phase is to determine or specify the project itself. – Planning: This phase also includes estimating. Here, there will be a set-up plan and schedule for everyone who is participating in the project. – Committing and monitoring: This phase will continue during the whole project, and project managers will track and monitor ongoing project processes to ensure that the project is carried out on time and within budget. – Closing: The project is completed and handed over to project customers. The project manager is responsible for the success or failure of the project. They are in charge of planning, executing, monitoring, tracking and accomplishment of the project, and there are a number of aspects and duties involved in the role regardless of specific field. – Composing a plan: Once an idea or project is decided upon, they need to find a way or solution to make it happen. It is important to keep the project organized but also have the ability to think ahead. – Setting a schedule for the project: Putting together a team who is able to understand the project working process and complete the project. This also means that writing skills are needed in order to keep the project documented from beginning to end. – Leading a team: Project managers must keep the team motivated, solve any problems that arise and sometimes make critical decisions on behalf of other workers. Needless to say, solid leadership skills are a must. – Managing and tracking budget: Keeping track of job cost is a critical task for completing any project on time and according to budget. How money will be spent and expenses controlled is key, so math and analytical skills are highly important. – Engaging stakeholders: If there is any impact on the project, then the project manager needs to give stakeholders a clear picture of what changes will be made and how this affects them. There are many different solutions out there and it can be confusing which to choose. A proper cloud-based solution will improve your team’s projects and tasks. Without the right tools for your needs, you will waste time and energy while doubling your efforts, yet not optimizing your work. It is clear that managing your project on spreadsheets and keeping documentation in different folders is now outdated and inefficient. As construction project management software has improved over the years, it has worked to improve various processes and keep valuable documentation in order.  Project management software also offers a great overview about ongoing project processes, and allows all paperwork to be kept securely in one place, with easy access from anywhere and at any time. Another excellent benefit is the collaboration it allows with other company team units, such as for accounting integration. This reduces paperwork, data delay and data mismatches. The above provides a brief overview of project management and tasks, but you can always do deeper research in your own time. While there are certain baselines that exist with every project, these also can vary according to specific projects. By its very nature, project management is sophisticated and capricious; the right tools, techniques and additional skills are therefore essential to to achieving true success in your project field.