Solar panel (also known as “PV panel”) is a collection of solar cells that are made to absorb light as a source of energy and convert it to electricity that can be used in a range of applications including commercial and residential applications. The use of solar panels comes with a basket full of benefits. For instance solar power is clean, green source of energy and it is therefore environmental friendly. Use of solar power also reduces over dependence to other sources of electricity which are communally used and not very convenient.   Not to mention that once installed, solar power becomes a free form of energy hence reduction of energy related costs. For this and many more reasons the demand for solar panels is increasing steadily around the world as well as the product manufacturers and suppliers who offer different service and solar panels quality. The effectiveness and lifespan of any purchased solar product depends a lot upon the manufacturer or supplier it was bought from. Here is a list of top solar panel companies in South Africa that will help you meet your solar power needs head on and never regret your decision to go solar. Specialized Battery Systems is very qualified and experienced in various designs and types of solar systems. Guided by the company’s motto “THE RIGHT ADVICE, THE RIGHT DESIGN, THE RIGHT PRODUCT” they offer free advice so that at the end of the day the client goes back satisfied and with the right product that shall meet their expectations. SBS has a large distribution network across Africa that enables the company to supply their products from small systems – such as 20W Solar Home systems for light or larger 10KW systems for whole houses just as easily. The company can also design solar systems to suite most applications. From the company, here is Colin Mackay’s, advice to a customer looking to buy solar panels. Advice number one: always choose a reputable supplier – who has a good track record and experience. Secondly: make sure the product they are offering is of a decent quality – the supplier choice should aid in this and lastly: always note that cheap is more often than not a sign of poor quality – CHEAPER IS NOT GENERALLY BETTER. Genergy’s core business is engineering, procurement and construction of solar PV and solar thermal plants. Genergy also provides operations and maintenance for all systems installed. The Genergy is differentiated from other similar companies with its consistent sourcing of best-in-class components and its engineering of each turnkey solution to efficiently maximize the benefit to the client in terms of generation output and return on investment. Solar thermal hot water systems in the mining sector and large-scale rooftop solar PV systems in the industrial and commercial sectors make up the bulk of the Genergy product portfolio to date. Currently the company solely operates from South Africa but it has the capability to deliver their products in the broader African market. ”Tier One solar panels have the best conversion efficiency; you should not compromise on the quality of equipment to decrease capital cost as the performance reflects this choice” advises Kimberley Clare Nanson the public relations manager for Genergy, “Regulations surrounding the installation of solar panels varies from city to city, so it is essential to make sure local rules and regulations are followed, as well as health and safety laws when installing solar panels.” she concludes. Valsa have partnered with some of the leading companies operating in the African market and for over ten years the company has been supplier of choice for a comprehensive range of products in the solar energy sector. The company also designs, manufactures and supplies mounting system to the PV Solar Industry on the African continent. Valsa has Subsidiaries in Kenya and Zimbabwe, Channel partners in Namibia, Botswana, Zambia, Swaziland, Madagascar Malawi and Mauritius in addition to their ability to export their products in any other country across Africa. “It is important to only buy panels from tier one companies, those that are recognized by Blumberg with good track records, quality control etc. Potential customers should only buy from well-known brands as the investment is high and the panels are the main component.” says Svilen Voychev, the Managing Director of Valsa Trading adding that solar customers should Stay away from cheap inferior products because “if you make a mistake, the PV Solar installation will generate less power and not provide a durable and sustainable solution.” Asunim Solar South Africa cooperates with the best manufacturers and suppliers of PV solar components in the world. The company also does solar installation. As an EPC company, Asunim’s main focus is to work with the client to find the best answer to their needs and develop a full engineering solution. For every particular project Asunim solar choses the best solution for the client in terms of PV panels, Inverters, Cabling and Structures that match the technical specifications. After procurement the company can arrange with the client to fully install the Solar PV System providing the first 2 years of Operations and Management free of charge. Asunim Solar South Africa is a one of Asunim Group, a multinational group of companies operating worldwide. Asunim Group has footprints in Portugal, Spain, UK, Greece, Italy, Turkey, Chile, UAE and South Africa. According to JOSE DE FREITAS, Asunim South Africa CEO, the best advice to a customer who has made the decision to go Solar is that they should look for the best brands with an impeccable track record of professionalism and expertise. “Solar and Storage solutions can be quite tricky and complicated. There are a lot of different solar panels and inverters in the market. There are also a lot of people trying to take advantage of this opportunity and although the entrepreneurial effort it is commendable, a customer needs to realize that experience, know-how and expertize does not happen overnight.” “For example, when buying a car, one should go for a serious brand, look for an honest dealership, but trusting a stranger with a background in gardening to build you a car is never a good idea, no matter how cost effective this might sound at the beginning, In the long run all the money spent will go to waste.” he concluded. Sinetech (PTY) ltd Sinetech was established in 1995 and has ever since been South Africa’s leading Solar Energy service provider in PV Solar Power. Battery Backup Power. UPS Systems, Power Protection, Power Conversion, Power Distribution and Renewable Energy products. Never the less the company is one of the largest distributors of inverters and other power products on the African continent, stocking all major brands and components. SInetech offers a technology called Individual Module Management (IMM), which allows the customer to monitor their solar array down to the very last solar panel, so no more guessing and time wasting, you can go straight to the fault and repair it. IMM can be retrofitted to most high-end solar panels. The company also has CIGS thin-film solar panels. This is a thin film of photovoltaic chemicals over a tough traditional solar glass panel. These CIGS thin-film solar panels perform extremely well consistently yielding around 14% more energy per day than the traditional solar panel technologies. In addition Sinetech’s solar streetlights, with built-in lithium ion battery and security camera as well as a 5 year warranty, are being rolled out in projects across the African continent. The solar panel brands that Sinetech sells are underwritten by warranties from the manufacturers themselves.  They come with a 25-year linear performance warranty which means that after 25 years in operation, the solar panel will still be producing at least 80% of the energy that it was producing on day one. There are even panels with 35-year linear performance guarantees, and counting, as the panels continue to perform in the field. Here’s Alex Hattingh from Sinetech sales department advice to solar panel customer, “Do not make your purchasing decision on price alone or be misled by a “price per watt” figure. Lab conditions and real-world conditions are quite different – so are you actually getting the full watts of your panels once it is placed on your roof and once all your cables are in place to create your system?” Seraphim Solar South Africa Seraphim Solar South Africa is a world-class solar products manufacturer. Since its foundation in 2011, the company has been specializing in research, development, production, and sales of solar PV products. Seraphim is accredited as Batch I Smart Manufacturing Plant by Jiangsu Government, the Witness Laboratory Accreditation Certificate (WMTC) by CSA and TMP Laboratory Certificate by TUV SUD in addition to being listed as Tier 1 solar module maker by BNEF The company’s solar panels are locally produced with up to 80% local Content, superior quality and innovation in order to perfectly match or other be effective in the African continent weather conditions. The company’s manufacturing Facility is based in East London and their products are present in over 40 countries across the world. They can always be found in major centers. “If you intend to invest in solar power, always look for Tier 1 manufacturer with solid RND facility and vigorous testing lab and you will never look back and be ashamed of your decision.” says   Mokebe Tutubala, Sales & Business development manager at Seraphim Solar South Africa. “If you intend to invest in solar power, always look for Tier 1 manufacturer with solid RND facility and vigorous testing lab and you will never look back and be ashamed of your decision.” says   Mokebe Tutubala, Sales & Business development manager at Seraphim Solar South Africa.   