 Generators are devices that change mechanical energy into electric power. These devices always use a fuel source to power them. It could be oil, gasoline, propane, LNG, wind or moving water. Hospitals and manufacturing units always prefer to have some backup source of power to meet with emergencies and to have operations running smoothly. When grid power fails it could cause millions of dollars in damages. Buying Generac parts online saves you from a lot of hassle. You can also get to save a good amount of money if you research the online sellers well. It is always beneficial to price compare and finds good deals that help the budget. Most industrial setups use the automatic transfer switches for a seamless transfer between various sources of power. When grid power fails the transfer switch prompts the generator to take charge. It senses the resumption of power from the grid and commands the generators to stop. Farms, outdoor events, construction sites use generators to power up equipment and tools.  There are many parts to a generator each with its own functionality. Proper maintenance of the generator requires you to learn more about each part. If a part is getting worn out it needs to be removed and replaced. Checking the generator periodically allows you to add more years to its life. There will be no need for repairs if you have a well-maintained unit. It is good to keep a check on the engine, the fuel system, alternator, voltage regulator and the cooling, exhaust and lubrication systems. Some generators are easy to maintain while others require professional assistance.  The way a portable unit works differs from the way a whole house generator works. There are many makes and models on the market for one to choose from. Your usage needs and ease of use are prime considerations when it comes to making a choice for your home or office or factory. Those who install a whole house generator add more value to their house. When it is time to sell the property you will have better chances of getting a higher price for it.  The most important part of a generator is its engine. It is responsible for converting the fuel into usable energy. It permits the generator to move its various parts and carry out mechanical function. From the fuel, mechanical energy is produced which is converted into electricity. All engine designs are not the same and some offer a higher supply of electric current as compared to others. Designers of generators can use all sorts of engines to produce electricity. These include steam engines, turbine engines, reciprocating engines, and microturbines.  Fuel systems, on the other hand, are responsible for storing and pumping the fuel for use by the engine. The bigger the size of the storage tank the longer hours the generator can function. This tank is connected to the engine by a fuel pipe. There is also a return pipe that returns the fuel back from the engine. Filters are used to remove any waste from the fuel. For better performance from the generator, the filters need to be replaced when they get dirty. In the fuel system, there is also an injector that injects the fuel into the engine’s combustion chamber.  Generators also have an alternator without which it is not possible to change mechanical energy into electricity. It consists of a stator and a rotor. There is a set of coils in the stator that conducts electricity. While the rotor makes a constant revolving electromagnetic field around it. Electrical voltage is produced by the alternator and this has to be regulated so the current supplied to devices attached to the generator unit stays constant. If the flow of current is not constant then the generator can damage home appliances. This is why all home generators come with performance monitors so you can easily detect voltage fluctuations.  Another vital part of the generator is the cooling, exhaust, and lubricating system. The components of a generator can heat up while functioning and a fan or a coolant work towards eliminating heat in the generator while it works. This prevents overheating while the combustion chamber converts to fuel. The generator produces harmful gases and the exhaust system disperses these gases.  A generator is made up of several moving parts and requires proper lubrication. The lubrication system ensures these parts function without any friction so the unit runs smoothly. Checking the oil level often allows you to add more oil at the right time. Changing oil and the oil filter is good when it looks dirty. The modern units come with low oil shut down feature that gives the generator a longer life.  Whenever you need parts for a generator to look online. There are several distributors that offer all types of generator parts and accessories for popular brands at affordable prices. Buying online is quick and hassle-free. You get to save on gas money besides saving precious time that would be otherwise wasted in going store to store looking for the right part. Availability of the parts can be checked within minutes when you log online. This makes online shopping a lot more convenient and easier.  Losing power leads to several problems at home and also in the workplace. Lighting, cooling and heating systems stop to function. In a storm, the grid power is lost and a backup power supply saves you from many problems. If you do not own a generator, it is good to buy one online. Browse through the various models of Generac to find the ideal unit for your use. Portable units with inverter technology are popular these days. These produce a good sine wave and can be used with sensitive electronics.  Generac generators are the most popular choice of American households and businesses. If you own a Generac generator, get the genuine parts and accessories from a local company online. Some websites run specials so keep checking back often to buy parts and accessories on discounts. Shipping is free and financial assistance is also available with some vendors. 