Nairobi, Kenya – Office
yields remained largely stable in most African markets over the past two years,
anchored by patient domestic capital as local investors assume a longer-term
perspective, a new analysis by Knight Frank shows. The analysis, published in a
new Knight Frank report dubbed Africa Horizons, shows that of the 35 office
markets covered; yield remained stable in 16 locations in the two years to 2018
and rose in six, while 13 markets recorded declines. Africa Horizons provides a
unique guide to real estate investment opportunities on the continent,
examining developments in agriculture, hospitality, healthcare, occupier
services (office), capital markets, residential and logistics property sectors. “By taking a longer-term
perspective and in some cases a lower return profile, local investors have
remained more active than headline figures suggest. This explains how yields in
most major markets have remained stable in the face of weaker reported
transactions,” the report states. Just under US$2 billion worth
of deals in Africa were publicized in 2018, predominantly involving assets in
South Africa. Contrary to the global trend, Africa’s recorded transaction
activity peaked in 2016, and has since eased. Notably, private capital
remains an important driver of investment activity in much of Africa, although
ultimately somewhat opaque. According to the report, healthy economic prospects
suggest that Africa will remain a compelling investment destination for those
targeting key centers. In addition to the office markets in these locations,
the report notes, rising wealth will favour sectors exposed to consumer
logistics, and selectively, retail. “We envisage rising
investor demand for those African locations that can demonstrate something of a
counter-cyclical nature, combined with rising domestic wealth,” the Africa
Horizons report concludes. In 2018, Africa recorded more
than 700 separate inward investment projects, half of which originated from corporations
domiciled in the US, UK, France, China and Germany. The investment destinations
were broad although South Africa, Morocco, Kenya, Nigeria and Ethiopia
accounted for over half of the projects, according to the report. In Nairobi, yields in 2018
stood at 8% for office, 8.5% for logistics property, and 9% for retail. A-grade
warehousing around the capital currently commands monthly rents in the upward
of US$6 per square metre, almost double that of the predominant stock of older
units that lack modern features such as cross-docking and intermodal
facilities. Ben Woodhams, Knight Frank
Kenya Managing Director, said: “Yields in each of the market segments
align to their risk profiles, with retail being much riskier in Nairobi
currently hence the proportionately higher yield.” According to the Africa Horizons report, top residential investment opportunities across the continent include student accommodation (with Zambia, South Africa and Kenya being education hotspots), retirement homes, and middle-income housing as demographics change. In Kenya’s logistics sector, formal retailers have emerged as a major driver of growth owing to their increasing need for large centralized warehouses as they gain critical mass countrywide. Knight Frank LLP Knight Frank LLP is the
leading independent global property consultancy. Headquartered in London,
Knight Frank has more than 18,000 people operating from 523 offices across 60
territories. The Group advises clients ranging from individual owners and
buyers to major developers, investors and corporate tenants. For further
information about the 