Nigeria is set to launch the US $70m Oshodi Transport Interchange. Officials of the Lagos State Government announced the reports and said the project will be inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari. The officials described the transport interchange, as one of its kind in Africa, which he said, was similar to Victoria Terminus in London, in the United Kingdom. The transport interchange was a people-oriented project that would help at least one million residents commute easily daily. Also Read:Kenya to sign deal for the US $3bn Nairobi-Mombasa expressway project The development is being constructed by an indigenous construction firm, Planet Project Limited under the leadership of Mr. Biodun Otunola. The project will be completed through a Public Private Partnership(PPP) initiative between the Lagos State Government via Ibile Holdings, Translink Capital Development Limited and Planet Projects Limited. Each bus terminal will be 30,000 square metres and will include standard facilities such as waiting areas, loading bays, ticketing stands, driver lounge, parking areas, rest rooms among others. Several financial institutions have also expressed interest to be part of the project. The Redevelopment of Oshodi will greatly enhance the security of lives and properties in the neighborhood. The government seeks to transform Oshodi into a world-class Central Business District (CBD) with business, travel and leisure activities conducted in a serene, secure, clean, orderly and hygienic environment, comparable with other transport terminals around the world including Stratford and Victoria Bus Station in the United Kingdom. According to Lagos State Government (LASG), Oshodi currently accommodates about a million pedestrians and 100,000 passengers who utilize the 13 parks on a daily basis. Over the years, this has caused chronic traffic, overcrowding as well as an unhygienic environment. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Urban Development, Yetunde Onabule explained that the concept of the Oshodi regeneration plan is premised on a three pronged approach including Urban Renewal, Environmental Regeneration as well as Transformation and Security. The president will equally unveil the 10-lane Oshodi-Murtala Mohammed International Airport road, another iconic transport infrastructure project the administration of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode executed under two years. The two strategic transport projects are purposely being developed to serve at least one million commuters in the metropolis daily. The Murtala Mohammed International Airport, was designed to serve about 40,000 people daily. A