 Whether paralleling, load sharing or power exporting, Atlas Copco’s QES mobile generator range is the most practical predictable power choice offering the perfect balance between performance and affordability to seamlessly meet the standby power requirements of the general construction and rental industries. These generators are designed and engineered with the customer’s requirements top of mind to provide the best air delivery solution that combines performance, efficiency, reliability, safety and convenience. “Our stance is that the generator belongs to the customers so give it to them the way they want it,” says David Stanford, Atlas Copco Power Technique Business Line Manager. Everything about the design of the QES 250kVA – 1250kVA range is the delivery of power as soon as possible in as few steps as possible. The machines are defined by simplicity – easy to move, easy to operate and easy to service. Because power may be needed anywhere on a work site, the generator’s mobile capabilities is first and foremost. The heavy duty base frame is built for regular mobilization and the structure is able to withstand up to four times the weight of the generator. Integrated forklift slots and a lifting beam facilitate lifting while a purpose built site or road trailer (options available from Atlas Copco) ensures easy and safe transport of the generator to wherever it is needed on the job site. Furthermore, the generator’s ultra-compact footprint simplifies truck loading and storage. Stanford adds that two generators can also be stacked one on top of each other which in addition to requiring less storage, also makes it possible to move two units simultaneously. The plug and play cable connection ensures convenient quick and easy installation. The generators feature a user-friendly QC controller with independent control and power panels and can also be started remotely. The machines are ready to operate in just a few seconds; from a cold start only two clicks are required to power and full stable power is reached in ten seconds. With a 100% load step capability, these rugged and dependable machines deliver power no matter how tough the environment or how stringent the conditions. This range has the ability to work at high temperatures of over 40°C and low ambient temperatures up to -25°C and is ready to withstand whatever the elements can throw at it. The protective galvanized steel canopy which features corrosion- and water-proof treatment can withstand corrosion for up to ten years. The powder paint coating undergoes a 720 hour spray test and the nitrogen-cutting, double layer painted base frame is subjected to a 480 hour spray test to ensure unmatched corrosion resistance. Maintenance is straightforward; alongside big doors and service plates, the externally mounted fuel fill cap and drain points facilitate accessibility to components. With a market-leading 500 hour service interval and a short sub-two hour service routine, these machines will contribute to increased uptime and high levels of production and productivity on any job site. The design of these generators takes the workforce as well as the environment into consideration; the sound attenuated and rugged steel enclosure protects against noise while the spillage-free frame removes the risk of ground contamination. The powerful, reliable, fuel-efficient, low exhaust gas emission John Deere power packs deliver cost savings and help to reduce the carbon footprint. Fitted with larger capacity fuel tanks, the QES generators can run for a full eight hour shift at up to 400 hours of granted autonomy at full load before requiring refueling (depending on the fuel tank configuration). The externally fitted fuel fill cap speeds up the refueling process and there is an option to connect to an external fuel tank. The generators also feature a clean system comprising a dual-stage heavy-duty air filter with safety cartridge and a dual-stage fuel-filter with water separator double engine life. Available with a variety of mechanical and electrical options, end-users are assured that they always have the right sockets to connect their load: The single phase option is suited for a lower power output as is required for a handheld tool or pump for example while the CEE 400 V from 16 A to 125 A sockets are ideal when maximum power output is required from the generator. The QES range was developed using Atlas Copco’s extensive experience built over many years in global construction environments. The machines have undergone comprehensive testing for sustainable performance, including full testing in the development stage as well as endurance and field testing. “We engineer rather than assemble our generators to ensure that the entire design of these machines as well as their every component is focused on quality and durability,” says Stanford. “The machine’s performance, reliability and life-cycle are as good as the sum of its parts; superior quality components are thus fundamental to prolonged uptime, reduced maintenance costs and extended generator life to ultimately deliver lowest total cost of ownership to end-users.” Atlas Copco is a world-leading provider of sustainable productivity solutions. The Group serves customers with innovative compressors, vacuum solutions and air treatment systems, construction and mining equipment, power tools and assembly systems. Atlas Copco develops products and services focused on productivity, energy efficiency, safety and ergonomics. The company was founded in 1873, is based in Stockholm, Sweden, and has a global reach spanning more than 180 countries. In 2016, Atlas Copco had revenues of BSEK 101 (BEUR 11) and about 45 000 employees. Atlas Copco’s Power Technique business area provides construction and demolition tools, portable compressors, pumps and generators, lighting towers, and compaction and paving equipment. It offers service through a global network. Power Technique innovates for sustainable productivity in infrastructure, civil works, oil and gas, energy, drilling and road construction projects. Principal product development and manufacturing units are located in Belgium, Germany, Sweden, the United States, China, India and Brazil.