LED lighting is emerging as the leading green lighting source. Advances in LED lighting is making the technology more and more accessible for people who are looking for a little mood lighting and wish to get their “Green” on as well. Below is a list of the myriad residential indoor and outdoor uses for LED lighting. It’s important to provide diversity in energy resources and to use sustainable energy resource beside local resources. In the recent years, LEDs have been increasingly used in indoor lighting systems because of their low energy high efficiency and their ability to maintain the light-ﬂux value at a constant level for a long period of time. Here are some of the top suppliers of LED lights Lumeno LED is a company that distributes of LED Lighting products in South Africa, including Lightbars, Spotlights, Vehicle Lights & Bulbs, LED Accessories and HID Kits. The company has managed to source high quality products from Germany, Korea, China and Australia and some of the products are manufactured locally and hold the Proudly South African status. The company has recently become the importers and sole distributor for a range of outdoor and 4 x 4 products and accessories. These are all available from most 4 x 4 fitment and accessory stores and leading outdoor camping and caravan outlets. Marset‘s design team is as international as any company can boast of and included designers from Chile, Germany, Finland and Spain. The variety of backgrounds is reflected in their eclecticism of their catalogue. Every product is unquestionably unique; from the vintage to the futuristic, from the subtle to the bold. Each design is certain to lend personality to any room it is placed in. Lexis lighting offers a wide range of lighting design including Indoor and Outdoor lighting & energy saving lighting design in Leicestershire, UK and worldwide. Lexus provides service of the highest standards; Lexus Dealer Service Centres are always up-to-date with the latest advances in Lexus technology. Lexis Commercial Lighting Products are UK based and manufactured in China where the company’s pride is representing consistent quality products, competitive wholesale pricing and prompt courteous service. Thorlux lighting are manufacturers, designers and suppliers of professional lighting systems since 1936 an extensive client be like Nigeria.. Thorlux is well known throughout the world and provides a comprehensive range of professional lighting and control systems for architectural, commercial, floodlighting, industrial, hazardous area and tunnel applications. Integrated Systems Technology Ltd are global pioneers in the delivery of smart, low voltage power and Ethernet(PaE) LED lighting project which is based in UK but serving an extensive client be like South Africa and Nigeria. The company designs and manufactures world leading, flicker free LED drivers, serenity LED lighting and control systems for intelligent buildings in commercial, architectural, entertainment, outdoor and amenity applications The IST team has considerable lighting and LED experience and has been working with LEDs for 20 years; they are the key innovators of advanced technologies used within the LED industry with over 20 international patents covering LED drivers, power design, optical systems. The company has built a strong reputation as pioneers within the SSL industry, with a strong focus on quality, service and delivery. Shanghai CHZ Lighting Technology Co., Ltd. was established in 2010, is one of leading manufacturer of LED lighting products in China. After years of development CHZ has become one well known brand in the field of lighting. The company offers LED flood light, LED Tube, Solar street light, LED High Bay light, LED street light. Since 2003, the ESAVE energy-efficiency program has contributed to energy savings and improved efficiency in all operative business units. Improved energy efficiency is an integral part of daily life at Essity. ESAVE is a program that encompasses investments in energy-efficient technical solutions, the involvement of employees in daily improvement activities and a general change in attitude toward the use of energy at Essity. Knowledge sharing is leveraged across the Group through training and various networks, and the company is part of several onboarding programs for young engineers. Best practices are shared digitally, in real time, to achieve energy-efficiency excellence by learning from others. Essity also cooperates with external stakeholders, such as machinery suppliers, to ensure continued leadership in energy efficiency and continuous improvements. All new equipment is energy efficient by design.