2019 marks the double century of Demag, which started from humble beginnings in the town of Wetter in Germany in 1819 by Friedrich Harkort. He was an early prominent German industrialist and pioneer of industrial development in the Ruhr region. Under the name Mechanische Werkstatten Harkort & Co he founded the first industrial workshop at Castle Wetter, producing steam engines and gas light equipment. The onset of the Industrial Revolution was crucial to the success of the company and its production of steam engines, steel works and rolling mills. The growing need for mechanization led them to become the first crane manufacturing company in Germany. The result of several companies merging was Deutsch Maschinenfabrik AG Co (to become known as Demag). The merging of so many engineering and mechanical manufacturing companies gave Demag a boost to thrive in the equipment manufacturing industry—so much so that production expanded to include crane hoists and electric motors. Demag’s headquarters today are still situated in Wetter in Germany’s main industrial Ruhr region. Globally, Demag around the world is implementing the ‘200 Good Deeds Around the World’ initiative. In Southern Africa several events are planned to mark the anniversary. Demag today is part of the Konecranes group and together they represent a formidable force in the lifting industry worldwide. They are backed by centuries of experience, knowledge and quality and are leaders in the latest innovative crane technology. Demag, with 60 years in South Africa, provides cranes (process and universal), and hoists (rope, chain and compact) as well as a range of KBK Light Crane Systems. Demag also provides drives, cranes and a wide range of lifting accessories. Demag’s focus is always on uncompromising quality as well as maximum safety and reliability –to help customers to achieve the best possible performance. Demag is a major global player in the crane industry that originated in Germany and now has subsidiaries and many partner agencies all over the world. Demag has an a 200 year old history, beginning in 1819 with the establishment of Mechanische Werkstätten Harkort & Co. in Wetter an der Ruhr. In 1840, Demag started manufacturing overhead travelling cranes, concentrating on the production of cranes and crane components at an early date, including hoist units with an electric drive since 1910. The company recently officially merged with Konecranes globally. The head office and factory for both companies for Southern Africa is in Boksburg. Demag offers customers a complete range of cranes, drives and handling technology for every application – optimised by comprehensive sales and service. Demag is represented in 50 countries around the world and employs 6000 people. The company has branches in Southern Africa (Johannesburg, Port Elizabeth, Durban, Cape Town, Witbank, Rustenburg,  Ngodwana, Uitenhage and Richards Bay). 