The importance of measuring technology is underlined by the fact that some of the costliest errors on any building site are due to incorrect measurements. The Stabila product range includes lasers, laser distance measurers, spirit levels, tape measures and folding rules so selecting the correct product for a specific application is crucial. The selection of measuring tools relates directly to the working range involved and the subsequent measuring method that is best suited, Upat National Product Specialist Charl Weber explains. Up to 4m focuses on positioning and levelling, where spirit levels, pocket tape measures and rules are best. Point lasers, line lasers, distance measurers and long measuring tapes come into play from 4m to 25 m in terms of positioning, aligning and transferring heights. Rotation lasers, distance measurers and long measuring tapes are more suited from 25m to 150m for transferring angles and heights in particular. For anything over 150m, rotation lasers are the best option. “Lasers not only save time and reduce costs, they effectively extend the area in which a spirit level normally functions, while also being able to measure over longer distances and to an accuracy of 0.1 mm per metre,” Weber comments. There is a wide array of building and related trades that require accurate measurements. These include excavation and pipe laying, gardening and landscaping, bricklaying, reinforced concrete construction, timber construction, dry walling, metal construction, screed and tile laying, electrical works, plumbing and heating, fit-out and even roadworks. “The two main questions that any contractor or tradesperson needs to ask themselves when selecting a measuring tool are the distances that are involved, which affects accuracy. Then there is the colour of the laser itself, which is available in green to allow for colour-blindness correction and increased visibility, especially in outdoor applications, and the more common red lasers, which are also more cost-effective,” Weber points out. The full Stabila range is distributed by leading supplier Upat, which also supplies customer service and technical support. The main rotation lasers on offer is the LAR 350 and LAPR 150. Line lasers include the LA 180 L, LAX 400, LAX 300, LAX 200, LAX 50 and FLS 90, while the LA 5-P dot laser is also available. “The versatile LAX 50 is very popular in the kitchen and cabinetry trades in particular, due to its affordability, reliability and accuracy, and the fact that it incorporates all the latest innovations in terms of line lasers,” Weber points out. The Stabila LAX 50 crossed-line laser allows carpenters and joiners to align the upper rows of cupboards in parallel with the lower row. Plumbers can use this handy line laser to align clamps in precise vertical and horizontal rows, while electricians can angle cable conduits. Painters can even use it to hang wallpaper or borders. Another popular Stabila product on construction sites is the LAR 350 rotation laser, which features the Stabila Protector System for extra ruggedness and durability. This fully-automatic, motor-controlled rotation laser boasts eight functions, covering all measuring methods typically required on-site. Another feature is the REC 300 digital receiver, which allows for direct read-off of any deviation from the reference level in millimetres. The Stabila LA 5-P five-point laser is ideal to set out right angles, plumb-lining, transferring heights and aligning over a 30 m distance. A compact and rotatable casing with an extendable foot makes this the perfect laser to transfer 90° angles, while the self-levelling and highly visible small dot means perfect marking-out is a cinch. Another example of Stabila’s innovation in laser measurement is the FLS 90 floor-line laser which features patented optics to make the laser line perfectly visible up to 15m. A functional housing design means it can be used in hard-to-reach corners, while an innovative reinsertion base enables variable positioning on both tiles and flat surfaces. “There is an increasing trend to deploy Stabila laser measurement technology on construction sites due to the fact that human error and intervention are reduced, while accuracy and speed are ramped up significantly. The end result is improved build quality, as well as freeing up workers on-site to carry out other tasks more critical to the project timeline,” Weber concludes. Upat SA (Pty) Ltd. is a 100% South African owned business that began trading in 1983. From the outset, Upat has been committed to the building industry, supplying not only a range of anchor bolts, but also rotary hammer drilling machines, tungsten-tipped masonry drill bits, powder actuated tools, and allied building and construction products. Upat’s ability to supply a range of top-quality products at market-related prices has resulted in it becoming a market leader in Southern Africa. Upat is proudly the sole Southern African distributor of the fischer range of construction fasteners, the Milwaukee power-tool brand, the AEG power-tool brand and the Stabila range of measuring tools  A