The iconic Lamu Municipal Market in Kenya is set to undergo a US $494,000 facelift in a move aimed at expanding it in order accommodate more traders. Lamu Municipality Manager Omar Famau announced the reports and said the county government secured funds World Bank for the project and the project has received approval from the county assembly and the executive. “Governor Fahim Twaha has been at the forefront championing the establishment of the municipality so as to bring more projects to the people of Lamu,” said Manager Omar. Also Read:Kenya commits US $794m to construct modern markets in Nairobi Lamu is among the 10 municipalities out of the 53 that submitted their applications and which was successfully selected for the Sustainable Urban Economic Development Project. The programme aims to support up to 10 fast-growing municipalities to develop sustainable urban economic plans and attract investment for critical infrastructure. Mr. Omar said that the funds will on increasing the number of stalls, enhance hygiene, bring order by ensuring that issues of waste management, hawkers operating outside the market, security and revenue collection are addressed. “The project is crucial for a county like Lamu which is a host of various mega projects. That means business will prosper with such a modern market in place. We’re really welcoming the project,” said Mr Famau. Mkomani Ward MCA Yahya Shee Basode also assured the traders that all the current stall owners will be given priority in the allocation of the refurbished stalls. He added that the aesthetic value of the market will also not be interfered with while the culture of Lamu will remain intact. Additionally, other projects are in progress in the county as the Municipality Manager oversees an increase in population in the county once the Multi billion Lapsset project comes to completion. “With a future increase in population in Lamu, there is a need to put infrastructure in place that would encourage investment and trade,” said Omar Famau.