Construction works of the Tamale Interchange in Ghana has commenced. The Project is part of phase one of the US $2bn Master Project Support Agreement (MPSA) between the government and the Sinohydro Corporation of China to construct a number of infrastructure projects including roads, bridges, housing facilities and extension of electricity to rural communities across the country. The government has clarified that the MPSA is a barter arrangement in which it will be compelled to deliver to Sinohydro, Ghana’s manufactured aluminium products. The arrangement required the establishment of the Ghana Integrated Aluminium Development Corporation, (GIADC) a statutory public corporation, to oversee the development and the utilization of the full value chain of the country’s bauxite resources. Also Read:Construction of Outering Thika Highway exchange in Kenya begins Speaking during the cutting sod ceremony, President Akufo-Addo noted that the arrangement was innovative, the first of its kind on the continent and that it won’t add to the country’s total debt stock. Under the arrangement, each of the sixteen regions will benefit from hospital projects, the extension of electricity to rural communities, construction of court and residential buildings for the Judicial Service, landfill sites and industrial parks. President Akufo-Addo explained that these projects were to be implemented on Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) basis, and would be completed within thirty (30) calendar months after commencement. “Government is also ensuring that, in accordance with the local content law, a minimum of 30% of works will be undertaken by Ghanaian contractors, and supervised by Ghanaian consultants. Thousands and thousands of jobs will be created for our youth, our country will be opened up for sustained growth and development, and, thereby, help put Ghana onto the path of progress and prosperity,” he added. Under Phase 2 of the Sinohydro deal, which would come on stream after approval by Parliament, an additional 1,300 kilometres of roads, 3 interchanges, and 69 steel bridges will be constructed, at an estimated US $850m dollars. Source: Ghana Govt.