Botswana’s construction industry has experienced a phenomenal growth; particularly in the last two decades contributing to the country’s the socio-economic development. The Government’s ongoing National Development Plan and its continued commitment to public infrastructure investment will see a projected growth rate which will be highly brought about by the top construction companies in the country who have pledged dedication in delivery and efficiency of projects. The following are the top construction companies in Zimbabwe Unik Construction Engineering (Pty) Ltd is one of the leading construction companies incorporated in 1996 as a small building contractor. The company has since developed into a competitive large corporate firm that can undertake big scale projects ranging from building construction to infrastructure development such as water supply and sewer reticulation, roads and bridges. Unik’s massive growth has increased the annual turnover from US $100000 in initial period to US $100m now. While maintaining steady growth locally, the company has expanded its business into Lesotho, Zambia, Namibia and some other Southern Africa countries Unik Construction Engineering is committed to meeting the highest   ethical standards in all its business activities. With a mission to deliver state-of-art  completed projects, the company has gained popularity with through the impressive projects they have embarked on such as Construction of Mabeleapudi-Tshimoyapula-Se rule Road (Ministry of Transport and Communications) ,  Road over Rail & Bridge to Tshele Hills (Ministry of Transport and Communications),  Construction of Bobonong-Tsetsebjwe Road in Bobirwa Sub District (Central District Council) ,Construction of a Railway Spur to Tshele Hills (Botswana Railways) among others. Unik’s corporate strength and competitiveness has been greatly sharpened and elevated, gaining prestigious recognition from the local authorities and society. SMEC Botswana was established in 1986 and has since then been consistently recognised for technical excellence and design innovation by the world’s leading engineering bodies. Striving to deliver service excellence across a range of industry sectors, SMEC has developed and refined a core service offering covering the lifecycle of a project. SMEC’s projects help to generate economic wealth and provide essential infrastructure services in some of the world’s fastest growing economies. The company dates back to the iconic Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Scheme, one of the largest and most complex hydroelectric schemes in the world. The scheme was a multi-purpose project undertaken between 1949 and 1974. The project brought together over 100,000 workers from 30 countries who constructed 16 major dams, seven power stations, one pumping station, 145 km of tunnels, 80 km of aqueducts and 2,000 km of roads. Through the scheme, SMEC has since then raised its bar high through delivering remarkable projects including major highway and bridge upgrades; the provision of project management, design review and construction supervision on the Lotsane Dam project; a solid waste management contract at Jwaneng Diamond mine, the world’s richest diamond mine; and the preparation of a National Water Master Plan and Energy Efficiency Audit for the Water Utilities Corporation treatment plants, pumping stations and offices. More recently, SMEC has been engaged by Botswana Power Corporation to provide electrical engineering consultancy services for the Orapa 220/33kV substation, as part of the Orapa Substation Capacity Increase Project. Today, SMEC is a progressive global company with over 5,800 people working within an established network of more than 80 offices around the world Concor Botswana is another leading company with a track record of having served the local construction industry for over 50 years. With origins dating back to 1902 in the Western Cape, Concor (formerly Murray & Roberts Construction) has a long and proud heritage of more than 100 years. Following its acquisition, effective 1 April 2017, by a consortium led by the Southern Palace Group(Southern Palace), which includes the Public Investment Corporation (PIC), Murray & Roberts Construction was renamed and rebranded as Concor. The company delivers innovative solutions to clients across a broad spectrum of capabilities including building, civils, roads and earthworks construction, opencast mining, property development and emerging capabilities within infrastructure operations and maintenance. This has led to a number of accumulated numerous accolades and PMR awards in civils and building categories. Concor Botswana employs highly qualified contract staffs, who collectively have in excess of 400 years of experience and service with an aim of delivering innovative solutions to clients. Recognizing the symbiotic relationship between business sustainability and the sustainable functioning of its social surroundings, Concor has a solid track record of corporate citizenship which has been embedded in the business over several decades. Stefanutti Stocks is one of South Africa’s leading construction companies with a capacity to deliver a range of projects of any scale to a multitude of clients in diverse markets and having a grade 9 rating from the South African Construction Industry Development Board,CIDB. The multidisciplinary construction company extended its services by opening up others branches across sub-Saharan Africa including, Botswana and 9 other countries. The company has over 12000 employees with a broad spectrum of expertise means that it has the capability and capacity to offer a single point responsibility on infrastructure development projects, effectively removing the interface risk from the clients’ domain across the diverse sectors. The company operations offer a broad spectrum of capabilities to the following sectors: Building, Bulk Earthworks & Geotechnical, Energy Generation, Industrial Plants, Oil & Gas, Mining & Mining Infrastructure, Transport Infrastructure (road, rail, marine and air) and Water, Sanitation and Pipelines. The Stefanutti Stocks’ range of capabilities covers multidisciplinary construction activities throughout the built environment. 