To achieve a glossy floor, ceiling, wall or even counter top, the surface will have to be converted from its concrete form and exposed to a Bonded Abrasive Polished Concrete, Burnished Polished Concrete, or Hybrid Polished Concrete. The results either, a dust-proof, glossy surface that is easy to maintain and clean with a custom brightness that is abrasion resistant and most of all appealing to look at. Bonded abrasive polished concrete is achieved using a mixture of abrasive grains, fillers and bonding materials such as vitreous; resin, rubber, shellac, epoxy, magnesite and other bonding materials referred to as plastic to your surface until the desired class of aggregate exposure of  gloss is achieved. You can also choose burnished polished concrete to achieve the gloss where the concrete surface goes through friction rubbing using an abrasive pad. Optionally, one can use a topical polished concrete or rather Hybrid Polished Concrete which simply uses a liquid coating on a concrete floor surface. According to a report done by market and market, by 2022, the Decorative market will be worth US $13bn There is a rise in demand for decorative concrete. This is attributed to the renovation & remodeling activities, growth in interest of consumers toward interior decoration. The growth in demand from the residential industry also provides an opportunity for market growth, especially in the emerging Asia-Pacific and Middle Eastern & African regions. According to Glen wienand, Klindex South Africa Director,the African market is growing and untapped. Klindex has for one been involved in large projects such as the Julius Nyerere International Airport in Dar Es Salaam. The project involved grinding and polishing a 30000 sqm area. Polish concrete can be applied on floors, walls, ceilings and counter tops. This means one can polish any room of their house to give that sleek look. It uses a multi-step process requiring use of the proper equipment. This can be done using wet or dry methods. Dry polishing is mostly used in the industry because it’s faster, more convenient, and environmentally friendly. Wet polishing uses water to cool the diamond abrasives and eliminate grinding dust. This is because the water reduces friction and acts as a lubricant, hence, it increases the life of the polishing abrasives. The biggest disadvantage of wet polishing is the cleanup resulted from the slurry produced. There are two surface preparation types; a new concrete slab and an existing concrete slab. A new concrete slab will involve less costs, since the mixing and the pouring of the concrete can already include some of the initial steps in polishing such as the addition of the decorative finish. Evolution concrete floors in South Africa say that it’s best to get the company involved from the beginning for them to advise you on how best to place the concrete. Willem Eiman, the director of Evolution concrete states that when placing concrete, 70 per cent of the outcome goes to the first process of pouring concrete. Once the concrete has been placed in an even and leveled manner, they grind off 3 to 6 mils. Once this is done, they put a penetrating filler or a stain resistant filler that can last five to ten years. Although Evolution concrete floors is located in South Africa, the company has offered their services in Zambia and Botswana. The company has sealed a 1,130sqm area and 1142sqm area over the recent past in South Africa. 2. Surface Grinding As soon as the topping has hardened and is ready to work-up, the grinding process begins with diamond grinding machine, and progressively repeated, each time increasing the fineness of the grit until it reaches the 120-grit metal segment. The grinding, and consequently the polishing, can be done either dry or wet. 3. Surface Sealing During the grinding process, and prior to the polishing, a sealing solution is applied to fill up any cracks, holes or distortion that may have been created on the surface from the initial grinding. Densifier hardener solution is added to the concrete surface to further solidify and strengthen the surface. Glen from Klindex adds that it is important to lace the concrete for at least one week before grinding and after the grinding with a metlabound diamond, one should saturate the surface with a concrete hardening agent. 4. Surface Polishing After achieving the surface smoothness level from the metal grinding, the polishing begins. The polishing cycle is repeated progressively as in grinding. Paola Rota, the sales manager for Achili a concrete floor grinder manufacture with distributors from distributors in North Africa and Kenya and direct sales to Zambia, Congo, Ghana and Uganda says that grinding of a floor is made of abrasive tools. Paola further adds that after leveling and making the surface as flat as possible one needs to remove the traces left from the previous grains and surface finish that will be smooth but still opaque before polishing. The polishing will occur in two stages: Pre-polishing and final polishing. Pre-polishing gives a semi-shine finish while the final polishing makes the floor polished and shiny, without causing “burning” that would ruin all the previous work. Although the polished concrete surface are durable if not well maintained, they can easily lose their shine. However, the maintenance process is easier than any other type of decorative concrete floors. Some basic maintenance tips include regularly cleaning the polished concrete surface with a clean mop and water. Whenever your dusting the polished concrete surface us microfibre mop. Another maintenance tip is ensuring you clean any spill and stain as soon as they appear. Don’t let the cleaning agent become dry, or it may increase your efforts to clean the floor. Also remember to use a pH neutral cleaning solution.