There are three factors that you need to consider when you plan to build a concrete batching plant.They are location, configuration and arrangement of staffs. When build a concrete batching plant, it is critical to choose an appropriate location of the concrete batching. Because it not only affects the construction progress, but affects the quality and cost of the construction(click here to know the cost analysis of concrete plant). In order to reduce the cost and facilitate of the construction, the concrete batching plant usually builds in a place that owns a convenient traffic. At the same time, the entrance and exit passages of the batching plant should be rationally designed. When purchasing a concrete batching plant, the theoretical productivity of the concrete plant ought to be larger than we need. For example, if projects’ required amount of concrete is 70 cubic meters per hour, then we should choose hzs90 concrete plant with a theoretical productivity of 90m³/h, instead of hzs75 concrete plant with 75m³/h. Cause the theoretical yield of the concrete plant generally is smaller than the actual production. If you are not sure which model of concrete plant to purchase, you can inform manufacturers your requirements to seek manufacturers’ professional guidance. Generally, the relevant salesperson will create a tailor-made configuration solution according to your demands. Though the concrete batching plant uses a fully automated production process controlled by a computer, operators’ supervision is indispensable in this process. Therefore, we only need to recruit some experienced concrete plant operators. Camelway concrete batching plant includes standard concrete plant and small concrete plant. The former consists of 6 models: hzs60, hzs75, hzs90, hzs120, hzs180, hzs240. The latter consists of 3 models: hzs25, hzs35 and hzs50. Camelway provides installation services in order to help customers put into production as soon as possible. In addition, Camelway Machinery specializes in manufacturing construction machines and concrete mixing equipment over 30 years. Over the past 30 years, Camelway has been committed to maximizing the benefits of its customers by producing quality products and designing suitable concrete and aggregate production solutions.