Prime Power Solution offers an extensive selection of new diesel generators for both industrial and domestic use. Our selections of Diesel Powered Generators are from the world’s best diesel generator manufacturers such as Perkins, FG Wilson, Volvo Penta, MTU, Cummins, Stamford, Mecc Alte, DSE and Doorman. We offer a selection of high quality UK manufactured Perkins Diesel Generators manufactured here in the United Kingdom to very high quality standards… We offer high-end Industrial Applications, suitable for customers seeking prime or standby power to residential users who want assurance of continued electrical service in the event of power outage. we also cater for domestic back up requirements with worldwide parts back up. We have been in this industry for a very long time, and surely, we know what diesel generators are available in the market, which match the requirements of our customer’s. We sell directly and supply their generators across Middle Eastern and African countries namely; Ghana, Nigeria, Benin, Sierra Leone, Ethiopia, Egypt, Algeria and Congo. Our generators are built to high environmental standards and are low emissions compliant to very high global standards making them suitable for hot Africa’s environment. Over the past two years, customers are increasingly concerned about the quality of imported power generation equipment, cost of imports and reliable source of prime and emergency power. With their unrivaled access to immediately available stock, they continuously exceed their customers’ demands for an on time and cost-effective service. At Prime Power Generators we supply new and used reliable British Built Diesel Generators Powered by Perkins and other leading manufacturers such as Volvo, Cummins and MTU. This not only reassures our customers of the quality they will receive, but also enables them to confidently purchase products without the fear of any significant product failure. We at Prime Power Solution advise potential buyers to buy high quality and durable generators from a company or supplier proven to offer the best products in the market industry. 