From mines to factories and even the small business and residential sector, Cummins has a full range of alternative power solutions on offer. This is particularly relevant as electricity utility Eskom has reinstituted load-shedding due to a constrained power supply. “Our key differentiator is that we are able to supply a small 17 kVA genset for residential or commercial use, all the way to a 3 750 kVA unit for mining, data centre, and hospital applications, for example,” Cummins South Africa Sales Lead for Power Generation Robin Kuriakose comments. In addition, Cummins can also supply one-stop solutions for multiple back-up power requirements for large scale clients such as mining operations or factories. A key differentiation is that not only does it supply the gen sets themselves, but all ancillary components, from air and oil filters and even coolant. “This is integral to our value proposition, as it not only allows us to offer the highest-quality products, but also to ensure that they are serviced and maintained properly,” Kuriakose notes. Cummins has a fully-fledged training facility where its own technicians and clients can receive customized training on any engine platform. This training is fully accredited, with certificates presented to all successful candidates. Cummins’ technology is particularly suited to dealing with load shedding due to features such as full load acceptance for critical equipment. In addition, its energy-efficient engines not only comply with international emission standards, but also have a high fuel tolerance level, which makes them ideal for arduous African operating conditions. In terms of automatic start-up, Cummins gensets have one of the best response times on the market at present. With load shedding expected to put a dampener on economic growth in the short to medium term, Kuriakose advises mining operations to have efficient alternative power solutions in place in order to maintain productivity. Another significant benefit for Cummins clients is that it can supplement its gensets with maintenance contracts of varying duration, depending on the application and specific requirements. This ranges from simple inspection and cleaning to a recommended yearly service of any standby units. “Clients also have peace of mind in that we only use certified installers, in addition to being able to offer the type of warranty that sets an industry benchmark,” Kuriakose stresses. Cummins can even become involved with the design phase of alternative power solutions, all the way through to installation and commissioning. Fully-trained technicians are located throughout South Africa, in addition to an extensive dealer network that can also accommodate remote locations. Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary business segments that design, manufacture, distribute and service a broad portfolio of power solutions. The company’s products range from diesel and natural gas engines to hybrid and electric platforms, as well as related technologies, including battery systems, fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, emission solutions and electrical power generation systems. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana (U.S.A.), since its founding in 1919, Cummins currently employs approximately 58,600 people committed to powering a
more prosperous world. Cummins serves customers in about 190 countries and territories through a network of some 500 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 7,500 dealer locations. Cummins earned $1 billion on sales of $20.4 billion in 2017.