The EEC Global Operation LLC’s Bio-degradation and sedimentation technology is unique due to its compactness and performance in respect to volumetric efficiency. These technologies are combined in a pre-fabricated; skid mounted and standardized tank system with variable lengths, suitable for overseas transportation in ISO freight containers. The systems are fully automatic, ready to be operated, and no odor. Standard capacities from 40 to 350 m3 per day, or more if in series. These plants are superior when it comes to cost and trouble free operation, can handle shock loading, pH variation, no backwash, no clogging of media and offers very compact WWTP. All without use of filtration or membranes. The EEC High-Speed Bio Tec systems can achieve 10 ppm effluent or less in respect to BOD/TSS. The firm can also achieve de-nitrification and ammonia removal. The EEC package plants are fully automatic. The treatment plant will take suction from the pump well by its own feed pump. The pump is level controlled and has a capacity which is 2-3 times the average daily flow. The plant has therefore an intermittent working mode in terms of hydraulic flow, while the air blower supplying air to the bioreactors is continuously running. The bio-degradation reactor comes with various chambers depending on required cleaning efficiency. The bioreactors degrade the dissolved organic matter by oxidation into carbon dioxide which escapes to the air, and to produced biomass which acts as activated sludge. AMB BIO MEDIA developed by EEC are a suspended, free floating biofilm carrier medium provides a large protected biofilm surface and simultaneously accumulates the active bio sludge inside the reactors. The biodegraded water flows into a clarification stage where the suspended solids settles by gravity. The water is directed through a skim well to a settler system which provides the final clarification of the effluent systems with high cleaning efficiency. EEC can configure package systems to meet clients’ exact requirements including Ammonia and Nutrient removal EEC’s uncompromising commitment to ensuring that its products and services comply with the highest standards and strictest effluent regulations for wastewater recycling. EEC has seen it transform from a US based company to a major global player in the fields of: – Biotechnology – Chemical engineering – Wastewater plant design incorporating the latest available technologies. The company offers global production and services. EEC’s unique ability in this highly specialized field offers flexibility to clients when navigation through tumultuous currency fluctuations becomes increasingly important. At EEC, they take their 4P’s seriously: – Their 33 year PEDIGREE of staggering growth. – Their PROVISION of the best available technologies. – Their systems delivered to any PLACE on the planet. 