In building your home, choosing the right floor plays an important role. Vinyl wood flooring has been one of the most popular choices these days. It’s easy to clean, more stylish and best of all; it is a waterproof flooring. When talking about such, FirmFit offers the strongest waterproof flooring and is one of the leading brands in the market. Below are the reasons why you should consider FirmFit as your next home flooring provider: FirmFit floor has a limestone-based core that’s different from regular luxury vinyl tiles and wood plastic floors. Being 100% waterproof means you can install it to almost any type of rooms inside your home. Whether it’s in a bathroom, kitchen, living room or even a sunroom and basement. It’s not just safe from water but also resistant to extreme heat and high temperature. When exposed to direct sunlight and high temperature, PVC like most plastic-based materials become much more flexible and start expanding because of their high plasticizer and PVC content. The planks are extra rigid and strong enough to push each other away to stay flat and firm even when there is direct sunlight, that’s why it is more stable than regular luxury vinyl tile. FirmFit makes it easy with the click and lock system to install the flooring by yourself. It doesn’t require acclimation and can be installed in large areas without transition molds. The installation allows up to 80ft/25m in either direction or over an area of 6400ft/620m², as long as the flooring can freely move. The floor is also compatible with both water-based and electric floor heating systems as long as they’re embedded. The extra rigid core makes it possible to remove telegraphing small sub floors imperfections in preparation before installation. You can directly install it over most existing hard surface floors. FirmFit is two times more stable than luxury vinyl tiles. Thanks to its limestone base, it is extra dense and strong which enables it to be more resistant to dents, impacts and heavy static loads like furniture.Unlike other water-resistant floorings, it can be wet mopped and even steam mop. The use of residential steam mops is allowed with the lowest power and shouldn’t be held on one spot for more than five minutes. One of the best things about FirmFit flooring is it allows you to repair a damaged floor in no time. You can just easily replace a single damaged plank easily without the need to uninstall your whole flooring. You can just fix it by cutting that single damaged board out and replacing a new one. More than the convenience of maintaining this vinyl wood flooring, it is also easy to get along with your neighbors by keeping the floor impacts quiet. When playing music, gathering with friends at home or just simply walking. FirmFit sound insulation class has a very good rating that makes even the walking sound a lot softer and quieter compared with most hard surface floors covering such as ceramic, wood or laminate flooring. It’s not just 100% waterproof flooring but 100% free from Ortho-Phthalates and harmful chemicals that should give you peace of mind when your kids play on the floor. It has an antibacterial coating that’s specifically developed to consistently protect the floor covering surface by inhibiting the growth bacteria.By simply washing the floor with vinyl cleaner and hot water, bacteria can instantly disappear. It is ideal for floorings that are often installed in kitchens and bathrooms, where the development of bacteria is the fastest and where the need for hygiene is most important. The flooring is also recyclable. In fact, FirmFit is a Greenguard Gold Certified, which is an industry-independent organization that aims to protect human health by enhancing indoor air quality and reducing people’s exposure to pollutants by certifying products for extremely low chemical emissions. Estimates show up to 65% of American households have pets at home. Whether it’s a cat or a dog or any other type of pets that love to run and play around your vinyl wood flooring. There shouldn’t be worries when little accidents happen because, in addition to being 100% waterproof, FirmFit flooring also comes with a pet stain warranty, protecting against fading or staining due to pet accidents such as urine. Distributed over twenty countries around the world, FirmFit boasts not just its outstanding features that will guarantee maximum performance but also unmatched wood and tile designs. It has one of the widest ranges of available styles and colors that currently expanded into more variations such as Tiles and the Herringbone collection. You can’t go wrong with FirmFit waterproof vinyl flooring. It’s more durable, easy to manage and most importantly, simply beautiful. 