By 1946, Henry Nagy was already running a successful concrete block business, but he knew there could be more. Inspired by technology he came across in Europe, he introduced the first precast concrete manufacturing machine – the “hollowcore slipformer” – to the U.S. After repairing and improving the bomb-damaged machine, he secured patents and began producing long spans of precast concrete that could not only be created faster, but offered superior durability compared to the concrete blocks he had been manufacturing. Applying a combination of vision and drive, he forever changed the face of the concrete and construction industries and started the Spancrete legacy. Since then, Spancrete has remained a leading force in the precast industry. For more than 70 years, they have continued to bring experience, perspective and an eye for innovation to the industry. As the only company to function as both an equipment manufacturer and precast producer, they are uniquely poised to continue innovating on both fronts. Their secret? Always exploring new technology options. Spancrete’s focus on innovation keeps them as a key performer in the precast industry. They continue to innovate the equipment used to make such highly regarded and durable products, developing manufacturing solutions to produce four different building products from one single machine. From slipformers to extruders to plotters to multi-functional equipment, the company offers an expansive machinery line-up, allowing customers to install equipment that will permit scaling of their production based on individual product and market needs. Everywhere in the world, precast manufacturing plants need to adapt to the changing needs of their customers, confines of the marketplace and available resources. Spancrete Machinery solutions help these plants by leading the way in scalability, automation, and efficiency. As the only equipment manufacturer that also produces precast concrete, Spancrete has unprecedented insight and knowledge into the needs of a modern precast production facility. Their first-hand experience in producing hollowcore products helps identify needs and opportunities to improve equipment and create greater efficiencies in how it is used. The Spancrete Hollowcore system can execute rapid accessory changeovers, permitting the machine to be converted from one size of slab to another in under an hour, effectively increasing productivity. It is so popular, Spancrete has licensees around the globe that have been producing hollowcore for over 60 years. Their equipment is also known as the most durable on the market – lowering the cost of ownership through maintenance and labor costs. The company has also introduced remote diagnostic analysis and maintenance capabilities on its equipment. Adding this feature allows technicians to more quickly assess issues and begin working on a resolution without needing to be on-site, effectively letting the machinery take care of itself.  Additionally, Spancrete Machinery is easier to operate than ever; systems can take 3D precast designs and seamlessly feed the production process – creating efficiency and reducing operational expenses. Available anywhere in the world, Spancrete Machinery is the scalable, proven solution in the precast machinery space. They’ve come a long way since Henry Nagy cast his first precast concrete plank; they’re looking forward to where it will take them over the next 70 years. 