Industry demands concepts that focus on maximum efficiency and reliability. mbk, a manufacturer of wire cage welding machines for the construction, concrete and precast industries, works continuously towards making modern manufacturing processes possible with innovative machine concepts. mbk is headquartered in Kisslegg, Germany and has long been known in the industry as a global player and partner for system solutions. More than 1,000 welding machines and 1,200 machines sold in total convince customers in over 60 countries all over the world. The automatic production of CAD-based reinforcement meshes for the manufacture of precast concrete elements with cut-outs for window and door openings are gaining increasingly in importance. To meet these needs, mbk developed the flexible MSM-M mesh welding plant, which welds reinforcing steel meshes off the coil according to individual specifications. Depending on the requirements, the producible mesh width lies within a range of 400 to 4,000 mm, while the mesh lengths range from 1,000 to 14,000 mm. Larger dimensions are possible on request. The DRA-M multiple rotor straightening and cutting machine automatically supplies the longitudinal and transverse wires for the flexible mesh production off the coil. The wire diameter ranges from 5 mm to 12 mm, optionally from 5 mm to 20 mm. The pitch for the longitudinal wire is 25 mm; the spacing of the longitudinal wires depends on their diameter. The minimum spacing of the transverse wire is fixed at 50 mm; infinite adjustability is also possible as an option. The average production output is around 160 sq. metres/hour; however, this depends on the mesh occupancy and the cut-outs. Here too, a higher output is possible on request. The compact plant system requires very little space and the modularity of the system allows for individual, customer-specific solutions. Subsequent system extensions are also easily possible. The stable construction and the low maintenance requirement guarantee convincing everyday suitability. The connection to the Unitechnik CAD-CAM interface enables the uncomplicated and free exchange of information inside the precast plant. LAN and WLAN connections satisfy the prerequisites for fast and simple troubleshooting as well as the use of updates for production planning. A large range of accessories for automation is offered for the MSM-M mesh welding plant, making useful extensions possible: Mesh buffers for the buffering and supplementing of the finished welded meshes can be adapted to suit the specific customer. mbk Maschinenbau GmbH develops, designs and manufactures in accordance with a thorough analysis and the customer’s needs as well as in-depth consultation with a highly competent development and technology team on an area of around 10,000 m2 at the Kisslegg site. With all developments, the focus is placed on finding the solution to the customer’s requirements with regard to cost-effectiveness. Since 1961 mbk Maschinenbau GmbH has set new standards worldwide through technical innovations, future-oriented systems and sustainability. Another point with regard to reliability is the professional and mature after-sales service, which ensures that everything goes smoothly after commissioning too. Customers all over the world value this aspect of customer orientation and have been benefiting from it for decades. 