Hydra-Tech Pumps is focused on meeting customer requirements by designing and manufacturing the world’s highest quality hydraulically driven pumps and hydraulic power units. Hydra-Tech prides itself on their ability to meet customer needs through both the adaptation of existing products as well as the development of new products to suit everything from a one-off project to an OEM development project. Because of their in house design and manufacturing capabilities; Hydra-Tech Pumps is able to control everything about client’s pump / power unit build from the paint color to the choice of hydraulic motor and engine. Whether you need a little bit of customization or something exclusive to your requirements Hydra-Tech Pumps is ready willing and able to build it for you Their pumps are widely used in many different industries for an ever-growing range of applications. Uses for our pumps have evolved from simple de-watering and trash pumps to more exotic uses such as aerial firefighting and oil spill recovery. Hydra-Tech Pumps successfully works with companies abroad to promote and sell the company’s pumps and hydraulic power units. Their network of representatives cover many areas of the world, and they service various markets and clients. Hydra-Tech’s S3CSL submersible 3” hydraulic driven sand slurry pump includes a built-in agitator used for stirring up solids.  This powerful material mover has hardened alloy wear parts and is designed to be used in applications where settled solids must be put into suspension and pumped away with the discharge water. Primary applications include de-silting ponds, lakes and streams; other uses include filling sand bags to prevent beach erosion, tank and digester cleaning or pumping sediment from caissons. The S3CSL requires hydraulic inputs of up to 10 gpm @ 3000psi and when combined with our HT11 to HT20 open and sound attenuated power units, the S3CSL is capable of output flows to 450 gpm.   Hydra-Tech‘s S3SHR, three inch hydraulic drive submersible shredder pump is designed to continuously rip and shear solids with 360° shredding action.  This compact unit features an open-vane shredder impeller with tungsten carbide cutting tip.  The smaller size allows for use in tight spaces commonly found in municipal, industrial, agricultural and i nstitutional waste applications. Depending on the application, there is a version for portable or fixed installations.  A guide rail assembly is available for stationary applications. Combined with our HT11 to HT20 power units, the S3SHR is capable of flows up to 450 GPM.  The safe and variable speed hydraulic drive can be used where electric power is hazardous or impractical. Hydra-Tech Pumps have taken some steps to help make and keep things green.  In addition to all of their equipment being able to run on fully bio-degradable hydraulic oil, the company can now offer clients’  an option 110% percent spill containment on some of their power units.  This option is built right in to their units that feature a removable trailer, and it allows for getting to a job site and getting set up quickly without having to rely on a portable berm.  This secondary containment system is fabricated in Pennsylvania facility out of 14 gauge sheet metal, and can be right sized to most of their power units. 