Camelway is a company specializing in the production of various concrete batching equipment and mixers. We have more than 30 years of production experience.Combined with foreign advanced technology, high quality concrete equipment was designed and manufactured. Our concrete mixing equipment is exported to various countries. We rely on this first-class manufacturing technology and humanized after-sales service to win the unanimous recognition of customers. Concrete batching plant We are divided into fixed concrete batching plant, mobile concrete batching plant, modular concrete batching plant and double main batching plant. However, the core component of the batching plant is concrete mixer. Our company’s mixers are all compulsory double-axle concrete mixers with strong power and high production efficiency, and our mixing arms and blades are all used. Camelway HZS concrete batching plant uses fully automatic central control system, only need to input a fixed aggregate ratio can feed their own production, can greatly increase production efficiency. We produce HZS180 HZS120 HZS90 HZS60 HZS50 HZS35 and HZS25 concrete batching plant respectively. Their corresponding output is 180m3/h 120m3/h 90m3/h 60m3/h 35m3/h 25m3/h。 The HZS180 concrete batching plant uses JS3000 Concrete Mixer, which maximizes your productivity, mixing quality and return on investment modular design. Its advantages are uniform mixing, fast mixing speed, suitable for dry, hard, plastic and various concrete production, easy maintenance and strong stability.  HZS120 concrete batching plant uses the JS2000Concrete Mixer, which has a compact footprint and low height to minimize installation costs . HZS120 Concrete batching plant  is mainly consists of twin shaft concrete mixer, PLD batching machine, cement silo, screw conveyor, conveyor belt, PC control system and weighing system，It is characterized by high productivity, modular design and flexible installation, and can be installed according to any terrain design.  HZS90 concrete batching plant uses JS1500 concrete mixer. This concrete batching plant is made of the best steel and alloy. The quality is several times that of similar concrete batching plants. The  HZS90 Concrete batching plant is easy to install and mix evenly. The output is 90 cubic meters per hour, suitable for large-scale construction, hydropower, highway, bridge and other construction projects.  China’s relationship with Fiji has made great strides，Camelway will sell high-quality concrete mixing stations at low prices to Fiji.To further strengthen cooperation between the two countries, we are now selling concrete mixing stations to Fiji to sell quality concrete mixing equipment to Fiji at a low price.Please contact us for details, we are happy to serve you. 