Xylem Inc. (NYSE: XYL), a leading global water technology company dedicated to solving the world’s most challenging water issues, announced plans to partner with Imagine H2O, a non-profit organization that helps entrepreneurs build and scale solutions to solve the world’s water challenges. Xylem joins Imagine H2O as a Sustaining Core Sponsor to support the organization’s flagship accelerator. Since 2009, over 100 startups have participated in the program, which provides access to customers and investors as well as cash awards, industry insight and capacity building resources. In 2018, Imagine H2O’s accelerator companies and alumni collectively raised over US $14m in venture financing. More than 270 startups from 40 countries applied for the 12 available positions in the organization’s 2019 accelerator, its 10th annual program. The cohort will be announced in January. “With water challenges rapidly escalating around the globe, it’s critically important to drive innovation and advance data-fueled solutions that can exponentially increase water and energy efficiencies to expand water accessibility and protect our environment,” said Jay Iyengar, Senior Vice President and Chief Innovation and Technology Officer at Xylem. “Xylem is committed to leading the digital transformation of water, and we are thrilled to partner with Imagine H2O, which is playing a pivotal role in promoting innovation across the water industry.” Ms. Iyengar continued: “We look forward to working with Imagine H2O, and leveraging the strength of our experts and technologies, to champion the next generation of innovative water start-ups and the courageous entrepreneurs who lead them – and to working together to help convene and amplify the global conversation about solving water.” “This partnership opens our global innovation ecosystem to Xylem’s wealth of water engineers and experts with the common goal of solving water,” said Scott Bryan, President of Imagine H2O. “And we are looking forward to a long future of collaboration.” Xylem (XYL) is a leading global water technology company committed to developing innovative technology solutions to the world’s water challenges. The Company’s products and services move, treat, analyze, monitor and return water to the environment in public utility, industrial, residential and commercial building services settings. Xylem also provides a leading portfolio of smart metering, network technologies and advanced infrastructure analytics solutions for water, electric and gas utilities. The Company’s more than 16,500 employees bring broad applications expertise with a strong focus on identifying comprehensive, sustainable solutions. Headquartered in Rye Brook, New York with 2017 revenue of  US $4.7bn, Xylem does business in more than 150 countries through a number of market-leading product brands. The name Xylem is derived from classical Greek and is the tissue that transports water in plants, highlighting the engineering efficiency of our water-centric business by linking it with the best water transportation of all – that which occurs in nature. Imagine H2O is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization dedicated to empowering people to deploy and develop innovation to solve water challenges globally. The organization’s water innovation accelerator provides entrepreneurs with the resources, insight and visibility to launch and scale water solutions. By partnering with industry and policy experts and a global network of customers and investors, Imagine H2O has become a proven path to market for emerging water technology businesses