A Kenyan-based international online construction company, iBUILD has unveiled a new mobile App tapped iBuild in an effort to effectively carry out its housing agenda in the country. The Company which has its headquarters in Washington DC (USA), will assist workers in tracking their work history as well as aiding homeowners and contractors in finding projects, making their bids, hiring workers, managing project details and also in making and receiving their payments online. Speaking during the launching event, Mr. Ronald Omyonga, Company’s Co-founder, said that iBUILD includes training modules for workers and contractors to increase skill sets. “This platform will enable clients to bid their projects to diverse contractors, create milepost for payments and to verify work completion before payment. It will also provide rating opportunities for contractors to rate and review workers,” said Onyonga. Attached to M-Pesa Accounts Onyonga added that the system which has an internal wallet system is attached to the individual’s Mpesa accounts for ease and security of loading and cashing out of the iBUILD wallet. Currently the platform is only embedded in the country’s leading mobile money service M-Pesa. “Although large scale construction may be alienating downwards, there is need for increased building projects by many people paying out of their own pockets” said Mr Onyonga. The platform which will be the first of its kind in the country will provide most home owners with the ability to manage various projects ranging from basic repairs to new house constructions. It will also enable contractors, architects and workers in the construction arena to communicate and collaborate in a controlled ecosystem. iBUILD has been in operation in the country since 2017 and its in the same year 2017 that the organization began its first testing and is now preparing to upgrade into the open market. According to the organization, Kenya will be the first full market launch and iBUILD hopes that this will address the setbacks experienced in the construction marketplace. Other piloting partners are found in Nigeria, India, Indonesia and South Africa. END. 