Keestrack, the international specialist for mobile processing, participated at Bauma Conexpo India 2018 to showcase the revolutionary mobile Jaw crusher Keestrack B4e on their stand. Making its Indian debut, the highly compact plant with integrated pre-screen has been displayed as fully hybrid electric version, offering important energy savings in productive high capacity primary crushing. “We are very convinced about the opportunities that India offers as one of the future major  markets worldwide,” says Peter Hoogendoorn from the owner’s family.  Micheal Brookshaw, Keestrack’s Global Distributor Manager announces, “We are setting up a manufacturing facility in Neemrana, Rajasthan for producing our fully electric range of tracked screens and crushers.” “The machines from the Indian factory will be re-engineered to suit Indian applications and climate while keeping their unique salient features intact “added Mr. Swapan Das, Managing Director of Keestrack’s Indian subsidiary, eTrack Crushers Pvt. Ltd. On the stand, the fully hybrid Jaw crusher B4e highlighted Keestrack’s philosophy of most flexible mobility with highest productivity. On this machine, an electric motor is responsible for driving the highly efficient jaw crusher – and in addition an electrical motor/pump unit powers all hydraulic components (stroke and traction hydraulics). The Keestrack B4e can be operated entirely from the mains supply, which Keestrack believes can achieve considerable savings in energy costs of up to 70 %. In mobile applications in the field, the on-board combination of diesel engine and generator powers the machine, which provides a guarantee to the operator of full flexibility and high investment security on resale. As a secondary crushing unit to the displayed B4e, Keestrack offers its fully hybrid H4e cone crusher. It guarantees a high level of mobility thanks to its compact design, economic productivity thanks to one-piece transport including the optional 3-deck screening module, and a broad range of applications, thanks to the proven cone crushing technology. A large feed intake and variable crushing chamber configurations and stroke settings enable the Keestrack H4e to offer a wide CSS range, while the drive and control technology has been especially adapted in line with the Keestrack hybrid concept. The cone crusher is driven by an electric motor – the lubrication system, the hydraulic Hydroset control with overload cut-out and the air compression of the crusher housing are powered by separate electric motors/pump units. All crusher functions are incorporated into the central Keestrack PLC controller, which enables loading personnel in excavators or wheel loaders to operate the machine by remote control. The cone is available with an optional full size three deck screen with recirculation conveyor. Using the B4e and H4e in a production train reduces the number of machines and engines needed for such a typical plant from three to two. With a large screening area over three decks, the H4e post-screen module also guarantees high production rates including oversize material recycling. The screen box has a sensor-monitored hydraulic drive, with all belts powered by maintenance-friendly electric drives. Providing large stockpiling capacity during operation, the discharge conveyors for transport can be fully retracted hydraulically for transport. Both the H4e and the B4e are equipped with plug out facilities to run additional stockpiling conveyors, plant illumination systems or electric tools, eliminating the need for additional gensets/electricity.