The Nigerian Society of Engineers, (NSE) has revealed plans to construct a world class Engineering Resource Centre in their catchment area in bid to boost knowledge based information and training of the teeming youths. NSE, Omoku branch Chairman Engr. Goodluck Chukwuemeka Ikenyiri confirmed the reports and said were poised to broaden the scope of impact on human capacity building at all level of engineering practice in the Niger Delta region. “The Branch is working out the plans for collaborations with the Local Governments, tertiary institutions and other stakeholders for the development of the Orashi region and we are in tune with the agenda of the NSE President, Engr. Adekunle Olumuyiwa Mokolu on accelerated sustainable rural development to render engineering services at little or no cost to achieve desired development of the Local Government Areas in the country,”  said Engr. Goodluck. Also Read: NSE to address housing challenges Speaking during their 2018 Engineering Week Public Lecture, Induction and Annual Dinner held in Port Harcourt, the branch Chairman added that the centre would bridge the gap between the universities, industries and dearth of quality manpower capacity building demands of the of the economy in the country. Morever, the NSE also hinted that they have planned to acquire 25 units of computer systems in preparation for the Computer Based Test which he said would be the next stride and innovations. Engr. Adekunle appealed to government, corporate organisations and individuals for their contribution to enable them rebuild the region. The Chairman enjoined the inductees to see their membership as an avenue to promote objective of the society, meet all obligations to the best of their abilities and see themselves as equal to every other member elsewhere, congratulating them for successfully scaling through the huddles. The ceremony highlighted on ‘Achieving Accelerated Rural Development,’  issues and solutions by Dr. Ifeanyi Chukwu Harcourt Wokocha and Revitalizing the Nigeria Power Sector for Accelerated National Development” by Engr. Christopher Okwuchukwu Ahiakwo.   