After Uganda’s flagship hydropower projects failed to come on line last year as scheduled due to unavoidable circumstances, there is now hopes as the Uganda Electricity Generation Company Limited (UEGCL), announced that Isimba Hydroelectric Dam is set for commissioning before the end of this month. The revelation was made by Mr. Simon Kasyate, the UEGCL corporate affairs’ manager on Saturday during an interview with a media platform. All the dam’s four Kaplan turbine generator units were running by Friday last week when UEGCL board of directors concluded their routine appraisal of the project led by the chairperson, Eng. Proscovia Njuki. Mr. Kasyate said that they have written to the President, inviting him for the commissioning of the project on January 24 and they are still awaiting for his response. He also added that commercial production and trade of power from the dam will begin in March. And that is when their commercial rates and charges will be applicable. Also Read:Uganda’s Karuma Hydro power project nears completion of its first turbine The 183.2MW (245,700 hp) power plant is located at the village of Isimba on the Victoria Nile, in Kamuli District, approximately 44 kilometers, by road, north of the Bujagali Hydroelectric Power Station. The project extends over approximately 2,867.6 acres of land and it comprises of a concrete gravity dam, a clay-core rock fill dam, a spillway, a power house, electro-mechanical equipment, switching stations, and auxiliary power transmission works. The concrete gravity dam consist of a reservoir retaining structure in front of the erection bay. The rock fill type with central clay core right dam is to provide storage for emergency gates and stop logs. The powerhouse structure features four 45.8MW Kaplan turbines. The Isimba HPP external switchyard is connected with the powerhouse by four overhead lines. Construction of the $567.7million Isimba hydropower dam commenced In April 2015. The task was undertaken by China International Water & Electric Corporation under UEGCL’s supervision.    