Operations on the US $3.1m Accra-Nsawam rehabilitated train service in Ghana is set to commence by the end of January 2019. This is according to the Chief Executive Officer of the Ghana Railway Development Authority, Richard Dombo. “We are only remaining with the test runs and as soon as they are done the train service will be ready and working by the end of January 2019,” said Richard Dombo. Mr. Richard further added that a section of the Kotoku-Nsawam line will require additional works to be done to strengthen the structural integrity of the track, dealing with encroachment and removal of unauthorised level crossings which resulted in the delays to commence the Accra – Nsawam shuttle service before the end of 2018 as planned. Also Read:Construction of US $9.5m Trans-Kalahari railway to commence Ghana Railway Company Limited is still running free services for rail commuters which started from January 8 and would end on January 19 on the Tema-Accra line as part of its 120th Anniversary Celebration. Passengers will pay US $1 as a standard rate afterwards. Moreover, the CEO of Ghana Railway Development Authority said that rehabilitation work on the 56 km narrow gauge line from Kojokrom to Tarkwa through Nsuta is nearing completion, and will lead to the restoration of passenger rail services from Tarkwa to Takoradi for the first time since 2007. “The freight service from the manganese mine at Nsuta to Takoradi is in operation, and the ongoing rehabilitation has also led to a spectacular reduction in the number of derailments and incidents that occur on the line,” said Mr. Dombo. Rehabilitation of the  Accra-Nsawam railway line became necessary  following a derailment of an Accra bound Diesel unit. The ministry decided to rehabilitate sections of the Eastern line. The contract was signed on 2017 and was expected to be completed in seven months but extend due to unforeseen circumstance. Reviving Ghana Railways Company Limited gave 300 young people permanent work. Mr Joe Ghartey, the Minister for Railways Development revealed that construction of the new standard gauge Eastern Rail Line will commence soon after the rehabilitation.  