HİDROMEK, which is one of the world’s top 50 construction equipment manufacturer, will exhibit its brand new products at Bauma 2019. The global brand will attract attention with its design awarded machines, the brand new H4 series excavators, the new wheel loader and soil compactors in Hall C5. The brand new electric excavator HMK 70 W is also going to take the center stage at Bauma 2019, which will be held in Munich, the Messe München Trade-Fair Center on April 08-14, 2019. HİDROMEK, a globally known manufacturer of construction machinery, was founded in Ankara in 1978. Backhoe loaders, hydraulic excavators,  wheel loaders, motor graders and soil compactors are manufactured in its production facilities, 4 factories in Ankara, 1 factory in Izmir and 1 factory in Thailand. In 2017, part of its new production facility located in an area of 1.2 million m² started functioning in Ankara. More than 45 thousand HİDROMEK machines are running in more than 100 countries. HİDROMEK works with its international authorized dealers and provides sales and after sales services through its centers such as HIDROMEK WEST, HİDROMEK RUSSIAN, HİDROMEK JAPAN and HİDROMEK THAILAND. Being organized every 3 years, Bauma fair is an important platform for the sector since it is the leading trade fair which brings together the industry for construction machinery. Having 605,000 m 2 of exhibition space, Bauma 2016 had 3,425 exhibitors from 58 countries and 583,736 visitors from 219 countries. The machinery sector is looking forward to Bauma 2019 and HİDROMEK is going to be one of the most important actors of the exhibition with its innovative machines. At Bauma 2019, HİDROMEK will exhibit HMK 62SS mini backhoe loader, HMK 102S Supra and HMK 102B Alpha Greentec backhoe loaders. Besides, HMK 200 W, HMK 145 LC SR, HMK 220 LC, HMK 300 LC, HMK 390 LC HD and HMK 490 LC HD hydraulic excavators belonging to H4 series will be exhibited in the fair as well. Additionally, HİDROMEK will exhibit HMK 600 MG motor grader, HMK 640 WL wheel loader, HMK 130 CS soil compactor. The new HMK 70 W electric excavator, HMK 635 WL wheel loader, HMK 110 CS soil compactor and HMK 150W wheel excavator will also make their debut at Bauma 2019. Offering high performance, HİDROMEK’s new H4 Series excavators stand out with their operating speed. During the design process with the aim of rendering the use of the machine easier for the operator, the H4 Series has an electronic system with an increased capacity facilitating to find out the condition of the machine and its integration with additional equipment. The red handles and warning labels on the new series of machines are designed to increase the operator’s safety to the highest level. Due the LED headlamps on the H4 Series excavators, night vision capacity is significantly improved. The new series also has an eight-inch display unit with an integrated radio and multilingual options, and a rear view camera with enhanced image quality. HİDROMEK aims to specialize in electric vehicles category of the future and takes steps to create a new brand for this category. since it symbolizes the future goal of HİDROMEK, the name of this new sub-brand has been determined as HICON considering the names HİDROMEK and “Icon”. On HMK 70W electric excavator, not only the engine but also the entire system is different from the standard machines. With its design, easy maintenance operating costs would be significantly reduced. The machine has an electric engine and a battery. The hydraulic system is also designed accordingly. The 100% electric HMK 70 W is eco credential, quieter and more efficient due to its electric engine. Environmentally friendly HMK 70 W with its zero emission and compact dimensions, reduce environmental impact. The users can work inside buildings, in gardens and parks, inner-city construction sites, in tunnels and underground with HMK 70 W. Lack of fuel consumption, the engine provides efficient power consumption and having low maintenance costs makes the machine economical. One-time charge provides 8 hours of usage. The standard socket on HMK 70 W allows self-charging. The high tech and smart HMK 70 W, protects the environment and the users on the construction sites, and it can interact with its surroundings through its back screen through its optical security sensor. When a person or a vehicle approaches the machine, a warning message appears on the back screen to warn them. Additionally, HMK 70 W draws the attention of the person or the vehicle approaching it with a red laser line provided within 5 meters of itself. In addition, the speed of the machine is visible on this rear screen. When the machine does not work, the back screen can be used for 24 hours non-stop and the information such as date, time and weather can be displayed on
it. HMK 145 LC SR crawler excavator, another new product of HİDROMEK, aims to make the operator feel as comfortable and relaxed as in an office. For this purpose, Opera Control System is used to facilitate the easy use of the machine. Having the ergonomics of heavier machines, HMK 145 LC SR crawler excavator provides easy access for service and maintenance with its specially positioned air conditioning. The tilting cabin provides quick access to hydraulic equipment which enables easier service. On the HMK 130 CS soil compactors and on HMK 110 CS the operator has superior comfort in the cab. The soil compactors have been designed with the product style of HİDROMEK with feature properties that will make the operator feel special. With the use of brown tones for a spacious look in the cabin, large windows enabling wide angle of view, 8” touchscreen for A/C and multimedia control and heavy duty type A/C, new HIDROMEK products provide superior comfort for the operator in the cabin. Tablet holder in the machines that can be moved to the left and right easily is another feature designed with the operator’s comfort in mind. Additionally, mono-block openable hood designed for the convenience of the user enables easier service. HMK 635 WL wheel loader is attracting attention with its high engine power, performance ​ and heavy working conditions. The product is more environmentally friendly and productive with Phase-5 Mercedes engine. The HMK 635 WL operates with high efficiency and low fuel consumption. It stands out with its high breakout force, dump clearance and traction. With seat heating, reversing camera, touch screen, electrically controlled and heated mirror, HMK 635 WL offers ease of use. With its unique design HMK 635 WL, is more stable owing to the engine located in the rear. Besides, HMK 635 WL provides convenient serviceability due to its one-piece electric bonnet easily accessible from the ground level and the step located in the back of the machine. HİDROMEK, a globally known manufacturer of construction machinery, was founded in Ankara in 1978. The founder of HİDROMEK Hasan Basri Bozkurt, started with the production of attachments for agricultural tractors. This initiative was moved further in the following years and the first construction machine ever designed by Turkish engineers was produced. The product range was expanded in time, which led to the growth of HİDROMEK; today HİDROMEK employs around 2000 employees. Backhoe loaders, hydraulic excavators,  wheel loaders, motor graders and soil compactors are manufactured in six production facilities including 4 factories in Ankara, 1 factory in İzmir and 1 factory in Thailand. The new production facility located in an area of 1.2 million m2 in Ankara has been continuing. HİDROMEK, whose machines work in more than 100 countries in 5 continents, performs the management of international authorized dealers and provides sales and after sales services through international sales and after sales service centers such as HİDROMEK WEST in Barcelona, Spain; HİDROMEK RUSSIAN in Krasnodar, Russia and HİDROMEK JAPAN in Sagamihara, Japan. Creating the difference in design of construction machinery, HİDROMEK has crowned its accomplishment with many awards. As of today, HİDROMEK is the winner of totally 15 design awards, which are internationally prestigious. HİDROMEK is the first and only Turkish machinery manufacturer, included on the &quot;Yellow Table&quot; list of the media institution KHL Group that provides information to the whole world in respect of construction machinery and sets a reference for the whole industry; the list ranges the largest construction equipment manufacturers in the world. HİDROMEK has been ranked in this list for the last 6 years. As per figures declared by IMDER (The Construction Equipment Distributors and Manufacturers Association of Turkey), HİDROMEK has been the market leader in Turkey for the last 10 years for backhoe loader sales, for the last 7 years for excavator sales and for the first time for motor grader sales. 