Appropriate Design Limited located in Westlands is a full-service interior design company that has grown over the years since its incorporation in 2014 and specializes in both residential and commercial design. With the goal to always create designs tailored to their clients’ unique personal styles and needs.  These designs fall under both interior designs and architectural designs. They offer a variety of services like refurbishment of furniture and paint colors, extensive whole-house renovation, and office space partitions etc. ADL also provides the expertise to make sure the project runs smoothly and gives you the best and quality results. ADL Company offers services to a diverse clientele that includes; Residential houses and apartments, Commercial workplace and corporate, Government institutions, Education institutions, Retail and Leisure facilities, Hospitality facilities and Health Care facilities. ADL has managed to work some with some big names across the country like APA Insurance, Sidian Bank, Alliance Française among others. Some of the services they offer include; Partitioning works, Ceiling works, Interior décor, polished plaster, Silk wall-paper, Fabrics, Painting, Carpeting, Blinds. They also offer; Specialist flooring, Wood laminate; Tile granite, Marble, Epoxy flooring. 
With all these services they also offer interior fittings ranging from cabinet work to sanitary wire installation. Some of the major projects that ADL Company has taken part in include interior design of some major commercial companies like: Some of the residential buildings they have also worked on include: They also do architectural works across the East African region for some companies. For example, In order to satisfy customer needs ADL Company Ltd follows a thorough process with their professional team to actualize and bring the customers’ project to life. ADL Company Ltd works with a very dynamic and diverse team. The team has versatile designers, renovators and master planners with global vision and international experience. As a result the finished product is of great and unique quality. ADL Company is extremely flexible and quick in service delivery. With a great and close relationship with local craftsmen and subcontractors so the customer is always assured their project will be completed on time with the best quality and standards. ADL Company in line with their company mission is also committed to delivery of inspired designs that fulfill client expectations through collaboration and exceptional service. With designs that are tailored to our clients’ unique personal styles and practical needs. The company has been at the forefront of commercial and residential refurbishments for over 8 years, working in partnership with architects, designers and individuals to create stunning and exciting places to live, work and play. They have built an enviable reputation for high quality work, focused project management, attention to detail and stringent budget control. Their services cover new build, alterations, refurbishments, listed buildings our projects are mainly located in Nairobi and its environs. We offer special skills in the following areas: They offer full design and build facilities through our own team of highly experienced professionals and a range of trusted specialist contractors. Their close knit team work together to deliver the hard fabric of the building; Services cover: 