While cosmetic changes are popular with tenants, homeowners have full freedom to extend, transform, and re-adapt their bedrooms as they wish. Check out this essential bedroom remodeling guide to make sure you remain on a good track. Although it can take months to get it right, a good solid plan saves you time, money, and stress. The answer to your current bedroom shortcomings will be the main driving force behind your remodeling plan. Choose the style that will guide your design choices through each phase. Consider that you will use the space for. While some homeowners do nothing but sleep there, others use their bedroom as a home office, study, or even a gym. Finally, you should also decide how much you want to spend, with structural changes bidding higher renovation costs. Once you have your plan in place, you need to see what resources you need for the work to start. It’s always best to purchase all the materials before you start anything, so you’re protected from supply shortages which may force you to finish the remodel with 2nd choice materials and fixtures. Now is the time to check if you need to apply for any permits. Don’t ignore this step, as unpermitted additions and remodels aren’t only illegal, but can damage the resale value of your property down the road. Establish an alternative sleeping arrangement and prepare the entrance for contractors, protecting the other areas from debris and dust. Demolishing your property to expand the home’s footprint is rarely financially justified, as you need a new foundation, walls, roofing, and many other elements. Transforming your existing bedroom into an expansive master suite is far less expensive. By merging two bedrooms, or a bedroom and the adjacent laundry or a part of a hallway, you can create one large area without laying done a single square meter of foundation. Modern bedroom designs lean heavily to minimalism, with lightweight pieces and clear straight lines. When choosing the furniture, stay away from heavy textures, carvings, and elaborate wood finishes. Instead, look for the furniture with clean, straight lines, such as these strong beds with upholstered bedheads and durable timber frames. Other popular choices include metal and glass pieces, as many vendors now offer polished chrome tables, doorknobs, railings, and lamps. When selecting furniture for the bedroom, you can even go with bold or primary colors to create a focal point, but make sure to reflect the accent color on wall art or a single accessory. You’re finally ready to take down your bedroom down to the pillars, studs, and flooring. Taking the walls down has an additional benefit, as now you can find out if there are any issues hiding under flooring or behind drywall. If your home is older than 30 years, use the opportunity and hire an electrician to check the wiring and see if any changes or upgrades must be made. Depending on the amount of demolished material you need to take out, you can hire a dumpster or use a truck if you have one. Waste removers typically offer competitive quotes for taking away construction waste but make sure to go with a company that disposes of it in an environmentally friendly way. When the room is down to its bare bones, you can make the necessary changes to the floorplan. Assess your current space from a functional perspective and see what can be done to improve it. Keep in mind that your home’s square footage is a fixed value, so any space you add you must take from adjacent rooms. In most building codes, a bedroom needs to have a closet and an exterior window. Failing to do so may make your property more difficult to sell one day, so make sure the planned changes don’t change the classification of your new bedroom. With the new floorplan in place, you can proceed to rebuild the walls, including the ceiling. Tape out your furniture outlines to make sure your plan matches the actual proportions. Once the drywall is installed, any change you make costs much more. For a bedroom of average size, drywalling is a project you can DIY over a weekend. Begin with the ceiling and work your way down, and don’t forget to secure it within 4″ on each end. Unlike in the kitchen and bathroom where functionality always comes before aesthetics, bedroom flooring should bring a sense of comfort, safety, and warmth. If the hardwood floor isn’t an option, consider engineered wood, which is a hybrid of stabilized plywood and hardwood veneer, and can be installed with radiant heat coils underneath.  Whether you go for carpet, hardwood, or stone tiles, unless you’re a particularly skilled handyman, leave the floor installation to professionals. The good news is that most suppliers offer installation services. We often forget the fact that we spend a third of our life sleeping, which makes the bedroom one of the most used spaces in the home. While bedroom remodeling projects vary in extent, from swapping carpets and a new color scheme to a full renovation, you must decide what you want in the early start.