The Radisson Hotel Bahir Dar, located in the North East of Addis Ababa, will be the first Radisson branded hotel in the country. It will also be the Group’s fourth hotel in Ethiopia. This achievement will bring Radisson Hotel Group’s African portfolio to nearly 100 hotels in operation and under development. Also read: Ethiopia to construct US $150m five-star hotel. The Hotel will be located on the shores of Lake Tana, Ethiopia’s largest lake which has been nominated a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve, just 8km from the International Airport. It will be near some of the world’s oldest monasteries and churches and will sit just 25km from Tis Abbai Falls, one of Ethiopia’s best-known tourist attractions. The town of Bahir Dar serves as the capital of the Amhara region in Ethiopia and is a well-known, memorable city to the north of the country. Visitors to the country are attracted to Bahir Dar not only due to the serene Lake Tana but also due to the city’s great location to rest and relax overnight, as travellers make their way to other popular destinations such as Gondar, Simien Mountains and Lalibela. Tilksew Gedamu Ayele, CEO of Picolo Abay International Business Plc and owner of the hotel said, “We are proud to be partnering with Radisson Hotel Group to open Bahir Dar’s first hotel with a top international brand in the city. The hotel will be crafted for relaxation and rest, given its great accessibility and prime location on the shores of Lake Tana, offering guests a memorable place to sleep and eat good food.” Bahir Dar is well on its way to becoming a key MICE destination and the Radisson Hotel Bahir Dar will be crafted to become the ideal choice for international travellers and locals looking for event spaces. Offering an expansive 1140sqm meeting and events area will set the hotel apart from the rest. The 125-room hotel will comprise of a variety of room types, from Standard to King rooms and Presidential Suites. Additionally, it will include a bespoke concept restaurant, all-day dining as well as an Italian restaurant. There will be a fully-equipped gym. Guests will also be able to get pampered in the spa, take a dip in the pool or sit back at the boat jetty, get back to nature and bask in the panoramic lake views.