Public Works and Infrastructure Minister Patricia de Lille announced that the first of five new integrated government precinct developments for Tshwane, Pretoria, South Africa will cost US$1.2M. Also read: Phase 1 construction of Castle Gate precinct in South Africa begins. Regarding the first phase, it will see to four government head offices as well as a shelter for victims of gender-based violence being constructed at the Salvokop development precinct, which is expected to be completed toward the end of 2022. This phase of the Salvokop development will accommodate an additional four government head offices – the departments of correctional services; higher education and training; social development and home affairs. It will also house agencies such as Sassa and the National Development Agency. It is also expected to contribute an estimated R6.5bn of blended financing. The project hopes to offer Office provision space, commercial, residential, retail, open space, schools and health care; – 24-hour security and community public spaces; environmentally sustainable and local content priority. The Salvokop development is part of the Tshwane inner-city regeneration programme. The total current development will cut across 524 000m² at an estimated cost of US$1.2m (R18bn). The precinct and its designed plan for development has the aim of guiding the location of government infrastructure development for the state through integrated planning that will be sustainable, inclusive and accessible to communities by creating an environment where citizens can live, work and play in a central location. The precinct will be one of five to be situated within the inner city and it will be a benchmark precinct.  The appointment of a contractor will commence by March 2020, followed by the construction of the bulk and internal services in April 2020 and is set to undergo completion by December 2022. REcently the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure (DPWI) handed over of a building in Salvokop to the Department of Social Development to be used as a shelter for victims of gender-based violence. This coming year, consultations of this gargantuan project will continue with other cities namely, the City of Cape Town, Buffalo City Municipality and City of eThekwini for the same developments.