China Jiangsu International Economic and Technical Corporation Group have been selected by Zambia to carry out the construction of a modern conference center in Zambia. The state-of-the-art multi-facility will host the African Union (AU) Heads of State Summit in 2022, a government official said recently. The International Conference Centre, constructed with the aid of China will be constructed in preparation for the AU summit hosted by Zambia. The Ministry of Housing and Infrastructure Permanent Secretary, Charles Mushota, mentioned that the contractor was expected to move on-site in January 2020 to start construction works. Following Zambia’s selection to be the host of the 2022 AU Heads of State Summit, the Chinese government has accepted to offer a grant to support Zambia construct the venue for the summit. The 24 square meters Conference centre will be constructed at the Mulungushi International Conference center grounds. Charles Mushota said that they as a Ministry are excited that the contractor has been engaged and will be moving to the site soon. Their engineers are already working round the clock to make sure that all the required logistics are in place. Also read: Zambia and DRC sign MOU to build Kasomeno – Mwenda toll road and Luapula Bridge project. The plans for the modern conference center in Zambia will have a 2500-seat conference hall, one 600-seat medium meeting room, one 400 seat multi-function hall and ten 60-seat group meeting rooms. The New International Conference Center will also have five VIP rooms, office area, exhibition area, press center, emergency medical center, service area, auxiliary facilities such as parking space. Mr Mushota also added that the Zambia National Service will soon start clearing of land at the site and that the government appreciates the gesture by the Chinese government in providing all the resources for the project. He emphasised that the current Mulungushi Conference Center will not be tampered with. He added that his hopes are to ensure that there is technology and skills transfer between the Chinese and Zambian personnel who will be deployed on the project. 