The government of Ghana has commissioned 1,029 boreholes aided by China through the Jiangxi Zhongmei Engineering Construction Company Limited at a cost of US $20m. Speaking at the handing over ceremony in Densuso in the Eastern Region, the Minister of Sanitation and Water Resources, Cecilia Abena-Dapaah said the project which was in tandem with the Government of Ghana’s (GoG) vision to drill 25,000 boreholes nationwide was developed to address the rural water supply demand shortfalls. The sector minister added that the project was conceived to enable Ghana to consolidate the gains that were made during the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the momentum to strive towards the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Also Read: Phakisa for water in South Africa to be operational by March The project that commenced operation on 2015 and ended on December 23, 2018 on schedule. Out of the boreholes, 52 were fitted with electric pumps, 976 fitted with hand pumps and one solar-powered borehole at Asante Akyem North in the Ashanti Region. About 500,000 people are said to benefit from the entire project with one borehole serving over 300 inhabitants. 182 boreholes were constructed at the Upper East of Ghana, 148 at the Volta, 13 at the Greater Accra, 155 in the Northern Ghana, 146 in the Brong Ahafo, 162 in the Eastern, 148 in the Western, 28 in the Ashanti and 10 in the Central. Each borehole will serve over 300 residents. According to water organization, 70% of diseases in Ghana are caused by unsafe water and poor sanitation. 22% of the population rely on surface water to meet their daily water needs, leaving them vulnerable to water-related illness and disease. Cecilia Abena-Dapaah affirmed the beneficiaries on the government’s commitment in improving this by supporting initiatives that increase access to clean safe drinking water and improved sanitation services. The Minister further urged beneficiaries to ensure that they do their part in protecting and sustaining water investments the government has put in place. She also urged the District Assemblies to intensify their campaign of educating people on hygiene and safe ways to store, transport and use water in order to avoid contamination.  