Italbuild Group marked in celebration 20 years of professional excellence in roofing and waterproofing while launching Scala Enterprises Ltd. The 20th anniversary was attended by the Italian ambassador to Kenya- Dr. Alberto Pieri, the CEO of Itabuild Group, Mr. Vittorio Veneziani, the Directors, Mr. Philip Ndolo and Emanuela Nesta Veneziani. Some of their suppliers; Mapei Kenya, and Clients Mrs. Jennifer Barassa, CEO, Top Image, architects, quantity surveyors, engineers and contractors were also present. “Italbuild Group was established because of the spirit given to us by our CEO and what we sought was to bring quality products in the construction industry in Kenya. The quality of work we do in the industry will even grow further especially with the help of Scala,” said Mr. Philip Ndolo. The main objective of Scala is to become the market leader in Kenya by making use of experience and technology. Its specialty is in interior decoration items including kitchens, wardrobes, vanities, doors, flooring and gypsum ceilings. Scala owes its success to its unique designs, the quality of work they do and its seriousness in the market. They are professionally competent and its rejection to shortcuts gives them an edge when compared to other competitors. The exposure of their staff is also a plus: some of them have been in the organization for more than 18 years,a number having been trained in Europe and also in Kenya. Although Scala represents some companies in East Africa, they definitely plan to expand and have offices in other markets across Africa, probably Rwanda, Ethiopia, Tanzania or Uganda. This will in turn increase their sales and number of projects in the region. Italbuild Group Limited was established in July 1997 and we are now two groups in one: Italbuild imports the latest roofing and waterproofing solutions. Scala Enterprises whose key focus is interior concepts and outfitting is also an essential part of the organization. Some of the most prestigious projects undertaken by Scala are: the full internal refurbishment of the CBK office in CBD, the complete overhaul of the residential properties of the Canadian High Commission, the Green Roofing of the Swiss Embassy and many others. Italbuild’s Group satisfied clients include: government ministries and state corporations like ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Housing, Kenya Ports Authority, National Cereals and Produce Board, Kenyatta International Conference Center, Kenyatta National Hospital, Kenya Airports Authority, and Kenya Bureau of Standards, J.K.I.A, Moi Airport and many others. The company has also done projects for private hospitals like the Nairobi Hospital, and MP Shah Hospital; corporate companies like Serena Hotels, Hilton Hotels, Sopa Lodges, Mobil Oil, Victoria Towers,
Regent management, Knight Frank, and Sameer Group of Companies.   