Most brick and block making machines work in sand, gravel, rain, and other harsh environment. This means their technical condition must faster than the other machinery, the parts will experience different degrees of loosening, wear, and corrosion, resulting in the decline of their performance, economic reliability and eventually leading to machine downtime. Thus, we must attach importance to technical maintenance of these machines. While extensive care is needed, a few simple steps cannot only help prolong its life but also maximize the performance of machinery. Following are two tips that need to be considered before actually moving to maintenance: In case of any abnormalities detected, the machine should be shut down as soon as possible and the reason for the abnormality should be investigated. A small fault can ultimately lead to break down of the whole system, so the fault should be attended in time. An unskilled person performing maintenance and servicing is much worrying than not maintaining the machines at all. A fault neglect or not attended properly can result in a bigger fault in future, hence it should be made sure that every repair and servicing is done by skilled professional only. The purpose of mechanical maintenance is to make the block making machine always in good technical conditions, and ensure its reliability, to improve its work efficiency, extend the service life. The following are four tips to ensure a proper brick and block making machine maintenance: Before you start to operate the brick machine, check the fasteners of the machine carefully and make sure they are tight. The lubrication parts should be lubricated according to the requirements. Check whether the mechanical control system and limit switches are normal, make sure the control components are functioning as required. Before you start the equipment, ensure that every part of the equipment, the program settings and so on are okay. Use the machine according to the operating procedures, observe its operation condition, and once you notice any abnormalities, the machine should be shut down in time. Ensure you clean the machine as per the equipment manual after usage. Considering any heavy machinery, production is not the same during low and high temperatures, the atmospheric condition makes a huge difference and hence various changes in production are important to be considered. Often in production, water is used as a raw material and low temperature may cause mixture to freeze. To avoid this, usage of antifreeze should be motivated and applying insulation to raw products is also suggested. Lubricants can also be affected in low temperature hence of antifreeze in lubricants is also suggested. Before placing machines to sleep, it is advised to drain all the hydraulic fluids to avoid freezing. 