The government of Ghana through, Kumasi Metropolitan Assembly (KMA) has opened the Kejetia access road in order to assess human traffic in the area for the first time since the Kejetia market re-development started. Phase one of the Kejetia market approach roads such as the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital (KATH) to Pampaso, Kejetia to Dr. Mensah, Kejetia to Suame Roundabout, Central Market roads are now open to the public. Although the area under construction is barricaded with heavy metals, there is a free pedestrian movement. The pre-test was a mock exercise for the city authorities to observe how the area would look like once the project is officially opened. Also Read:Chinese firms bags contract for US $385m interchange project in Botswana Re-development of the Kejetia market begun in 2015 at a tune of US $259m. Brazilian construction company Contracta Engenharia were contracted to engineer the project. This was to take place in three phases with phase one paving way to phase two and three Phase one of the project  involves general infrastructure like roads and transport system, drain system, market infrastructure detailed as parking lot, transport terminal, community facilities, and market construction, namely the technical, stalls and circulation and metallic roofing, is expected to facilitate economic and trading activities in Kumasi and beyond. Traders who had formally taken over the pedestrians walk ways have been vacated. Mr. Godwin Okumah Nyame, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the KMA warned the public that security personnel would be deployed so as to ensure that traders will not defy the law. “There will be severe sanctions to squatters who resurface back to the streets,” he affirmed. Although the roads are open, the vehicular traffic would have to wait until the market is officially opened. According to Mr. Nyame official communication on the inauguration of the Kejetia Market would be communicated to the public. The Kejetia market is the largest single market in West Africa with over 10,000 stores and stalls. 