Construction machines, whether heavy or light, is used to make any kind of construction job possible, easier, reliable and safer. The rise of infrastructural projects in Africa has led to the increase in the use of construction equipment in the continent. Construction machinery fall into the heavy category of machinery production as a whole and is characterized by being a major consumer of iron and steel in all of its forms—plate, strip, and sheet; castings, stampings, and forgings; wire, springs, and rods. Here are some of the top construction equipment companies in South Africa; ELB Equipment (ELB) in Boksburg, South Africa offers a broad range of earthmoving, construction, mining and quarrying equipment from a single supplier. The ELB Group is South African owned and managed. ELB Equipment offers a range of construction equipments such as rollers, pavers, hammers, backhoe loaders, piercing tools, pipe bursting systems, pipe rammers, pneumatic hammers, trenchers and horizontal directional drills. The company’s equipment represent a number of world-renowned manufacturers whose products are designed to meet the strict emission and safety control regulation that apply to the industrialized first world countries. Since South Africa closely follows global standards, customers can rest assured that the products they supply meet local safety standards. Hitachi in Cape Town, South Africa offers mini excavators, medium excavators, wheeler excavators, on barge excavators, and wheel loaders. The company offers solutions that address the needs of a broad range of industries, including civil engineering and construction, building and structural demolition, and mining and excavation. CEG in Isando, South Africa consists of a number of companies with a leading position in the distribution of agricultural construction and forklift equipment. The company has a distribution network of over 138 outlets covering all aspects of distribution in the different sectors of the markets in which it trades. CEG has within its fold one the biggest agricultural equipment suppliers in South Africa and represent many well known world brands. VolvoCE Heavy Equipment‎ in Boksburg, South Africa is leading international manufacturer of premium construction equipment, and with over 14,000 employees they are one of the largest companies in the industry. With a full product range, manufactured, serviced and supported all over the globe, we’ve got the right machine and the right solution for all your jobs. The company offers products like Excavators, Dumpers, Compactors Wheel Loaders, Asphalt Pavers, and Excavators. Skid Steer Loaders. Case construction in Isando, South Africa offers a range of earth moving equipment which consists of backhoe loaders (tlb), excavators, skid steer loaders and graders. We assist a wide range of key industries including plant hire, construction, excavation, bulk earthworks, civil contracting and mining. They also provide after sales support through our national network of branches and in-house technical team to ensure full uptime to our customers Liebherr-Africa (Pty) Ltd in Fulcrum, South Africa is responsible for the manufacture and sale of tower cranes, specialized cranes and concrete mixers. Today, the company sells and supports construction machines as well as mining and material handling equipment for the Group. Liebherr is not only one of the world’s largest manufacturers of construction machinery; it also enjoys success in many other industries. The extraordinarily large range of products is the result of gradual development. It extends to a total of eleven product segments which Liebherr developed by its own means.