Turkey-based Onduline Avrasya produce a wide range of roofing and waterproofing systems including; Onduline HR, Onduvilla roofing systems, Isoline and clay tiles roofing system, Bituline waterproofing system and Fondaline damp-proofing system. “During our visits to the African countries, we are impressed by the business opportunities presented by the continent and also the number of people who are interested with our product line,” says Jean Akmansoy, export manager. The company, which added the markets of the African continent to its area of operations at the beginning of 2016, has already secured several projects in the region. “The region presents numerous opportunities to replace old asbestos roofs with asbestos-free roofing sheets such as our Onduline HR sheets and Onduvilla bituminous and lightweight roofing tiles. Our roofing line is Eco- responsible, waterproof, has thermal and acoustic comfort and it is easy to apply. Onduline offers roofing solutions to a wide range of buildings including Residential, Commercial Buildings and Resorts, Agricultural, Public Access Buildings, Leisure housing and DIY projects and are used in more then 120 countries around the world. Their  Isoline under tile system is also very attractive with the use of trendy clay tiles in today’s housing in the African countries and as the use of APP (atactic polypropylene) or SBS (styrene butadiene styrene) modified Bituline waterproofing membranes is a requirement in all new construction projects. We have encountered vast demand from Benin, Burundi, Cameroun, Congo DR, Ivory Coast, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guiné Conakry, Kenya, Liberia, Libya, Madagaskar, Morocco, Niger, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Sudan, Tanzania, Tchad, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia in housing and industrial projects. “All our products are new for the African market,” Akmansoy adds. Onduline Avrasya is one of the newest manufacturing companies of the French Onduline Group, which has specialized in the production and marketing of building materials since it started operations in 1945. Today, the group is claimed to be a world leader in bitumen-based roofing and insulating materials with an annual sales volume over 1 billion sq m. “Various manufacturing subsidiaries of the group currently produce a wide spectrum of products ranging from bituminous-based roofing sheets and under-sheeting to asphalt shingles, modified bituminous waterproofing membranes, poly carbonate, PVC (polyvinyl chloride) and polyester sheets and rolls and polyethylene sheeting with protective insulation. They also offer drainage as well as various building materials and accessories, such as liquid waterproofing, geotextiles, roof underlayments and green roof systems” says Akmansoy. Having started its operations in Turkey in 1994, the company has taken advantage of the Onduline’s specialisation in fields of manufacturing process, product composition and marketing. Onduline Avrasya mainly exports to Africa, Eastern Europe, Central Asia, the Caucasus and the Middle East, says Mr Akmansoy company Export Manager. Onduline Avrasya is currently involved with the manufacture and marketing of Onduline HR corrugated and asphalt roofing sheets, Onduvilla asphalt roofing tiles, Isoline and Rufoline under sheeting, Bituline modified bituminous waterproofing membranes, Bardoline asphalt shingles, Fondaline damp-proofing membranes, etc. The 135-staff-strong company has a yearly turnover of  US $60m and reports that business has been growing by 20 per cent each year. This Turkish market leader has sold 10 million sq m of roofing sheets and 12 million sq m of waterproofing membranes in 2018. “The company has a project department that is entrusted with the responsibility of providing complete solutions for roofing and waterproofing. The department can also offer technical help to customers if they provide us their technical drawings as an AutoCad file,” he adds.We are very optimistic about our prospects and we are confident of penetrating the fast-growing markets of African continent in due course. At Onduline Avrasya, we have been working on setting up new and strengthening our existing distribution network by getting closer to our customers in the region. This should enable us to meet the customer requirements of the African markets,” Akmansoy concludes. Onduline offers  roofing solutions to a wide range of buildings including Residential, Commercial Buildings and Resorts, Agricultural, Public Access Buildings, Leisure housing and DIY projects and are used in more then 120 countries around the world. Onduline is a durable material which can be used for roofing. Onduline sheets are produced in red, brown and green colors and are easily installed. With Onduline sheets you can create aestetic  roofs. Weighing  4kg/m², Onduline® sheets are really practical to install: only a hammer is needed for securing the sheets and a band saw for cutting them down to size. Manufactured from recycled fibers, Onduline® sheets contain no asbestos and therefore present no health risk either in installation or when the building is in use. Manufactured through an environment friendly technology, Onduline® roofing sheet is a flexible and cost effective product that provides weather protection, sound and thermal insulation. It is completely waterproof, cannot rust. It resists most chemicals and corrosion. Made from most advanced technology, Onduline® sheets have a very low heat conducting coefficients: they provide a perfect seal integrity in all climates and insulate against the noise of heavy rainfall. Lightweight and flexible, Onduline® sheets are specified by many architects in regions of the world exposed to the risk of hurricanes. BITULINE- APP/SBS Modified torch-on waterproofing system BITULINE© is a waterproofing membrane made of modified bitumen reinforced with non-woven polyester mat or glass fiber and resistant to temperatures from 0°C ,-5°C, -10°C,- to -20°C . BITULINE© is torch apply membrane designed for new roofing and reroofing applications, can be bonded by heat welding over damp or concrete below-grade vertical and horizontal foundation structures and below concrete slabs, on floor surfaces or sloped or flat roofs prepared with BITULINE© primer prior to the application of the waterproofing membrane. 2 mm ,3 mm, 4 mm and 5 mm thick, the BITULINE© membranes are produced in rolls of 10 m x 1 m. Onduline offers reliable products for multi-layer waterproofing BUR or tanking solutions. Onduline is offering  products adapted for BUR of civil works, for waterproofing of industrial floors, rooftop terraces, green roofs and inverted roofs, parking decks,bridges, parapet, zinc roofing projects sealings, gutters, water runs and fireplace hosting, ridge, fascia band edging, box gutters, eaves apron strips flashings, vertical surfaces of rooftop terrasses/planters, culverts, drainage , load-bearing elements and masonry work, foundation slab tanking for new, renovation and repair works. Higher tensile and tear strength, shows good dimensional stability, excellent cold-bending behaviour  from 0°C to -20°C. For effective waterproofing water-tightness alone is not enough. The waterproofing felt must possess a number of additional qualities; adhesion and mechanical resistance in order to resist to the effects of thermal expansion/ retraction, heavy traffic or other loading imposed damaging effects of all likely contaminants, etc. and resistance to the damaging effects of biological, chemical and physical agents. The waterproofing felt should also resist to aging degradation of the structure in order to maintain the water-tightness of the entire building. BITULINE© membranes have optimal mechanical and physical properties and their quality is ultimate in performance, versatility, and ease-of-use. Depending on the nature of the local, ground, wall, concrete slab or concrete footing and possible water leakage risk,complementary products and accessories  are necessary for the execution of the works. BITULINE© membranes line have a wide range of characteristics and performances in order to provide turnkey solutions to meet all reliable waterproofing needs. 