Construction has faced a major growth in Sub-Sahara Africa over the years with the different projects taking place. According to GlobalData, the Sub-Saharan Africa is the fastest growing industry in the world on average by a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 6.6% a year. Kenya is among the countries that is recording a significant growth in the construction industry with an annual growth rate of 6.2%. This is attributed to the increased government funding on projects such as phase two of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and the Lamu port. The following are some of Kenya’s leading construction equipment companies. Holman brothers have been around since 1962 distributing whole range of construction and heavy equipment. The company is a market dealer in earth moving air compressors and farm am machinery. Holman has partnered with leading global brands such as JCB, SINOMACH, Sany, where they deliver quality, functional equipment in time. Established in 1982 with headquarters in Nairobi, Ganatra Plant & Equipment Ltd, is the sole authorized distributors for the JCB brand. The company also provides spare parts on machines and product support for JCB machinery. The international company was incorporated in Kenya in April 1936. Atlas Eastern Africa based in Kenya deals mainly with importation, distribution, sales and aftermarket support for Industrial compressor, Portable Compressors, Generators and Construction tools. The sole authorized dealer for Caterpillar Products in Kenya, distributes and supports the full range of CAT construction equipment including Wheel Loaders, Skid Steer orders, Dump Articulated Trucks, Backhoe Loaders, Excavators, Motor Graders, Track-TypeTractors, BCP products. Mantrac’s head office is in Nairobi with branches in Kisumu and Mombasa. For 75 years, Car and General has supplied generators, lawn mowers, scooters, marine engines, construction equipment and a wide range of power generation, automotive and engineering products in East Africa. The company whose headquarters is in Nairobi with branches in branches in Arusha, Mwanza and Zanzibar and Rwanda in Kigali and Dar-es-Salaam. Hyundai construction equipment is a widely recognized in the construction industry for its use of advanced ergonomic engineering and technology. Hyundai construction division stated its operation on 1985 and currently manufactures construction equipment such as hydraulic excavators, wheel loaders, backhoe loaders, skid steer loaders as well as industrial vehicles. The equipment’s are not only automated but also have a zero-tolerance quality control inspection system, and innovative engineering. Nyati machines is a local construction equipment manufacturer of Nyati excavators, wheel loaders and forklifts. Each equipment goes through extensive testing to ensure they would work in the African climate. Panafrican offers a diversified range of mining, construction, crushing and screening, forestry, utility and road building products. Their equipment and support solutions extend to horizontal and vertical construction, road construction, cement, asphalt and maintenance, bridge and overpasses, and transportation (airport, port and rail) related projects. Founded in 1989 XCMG is a Chinese construction machinery industry. XCMG ranks 5th in world construction machinery industry. XCMG East Africa was established in Nairobi in 2011 to boost the sales of XCMG brand products in Kenya and East Africa at large, and to provide better and more intimate services for the end users. Xiamen XGMA Machinery Co., Ltd. was formed in 1951. The company produces construction equipment such as loaders, excavators, forklifts, pavement construction machinery, small machinery, concrete machinery, piling machinery, environmental protection machinery, hoisting machinery and tunneling machinery.