Over forty years ago, Volteco was created around an idea. A challenge, then as now, to protect buildings from the water. This is what the company focus on even today, it is part of its DNA. Because the best guarantee is technical expertise. Volteco is a specialist in its field, Volteco’s know-how in the field of waterproofing and protection, is expressed in a product range designed to provide the best solutions for waterproofing structures and water containment applications both in positive and negative conditions. Moreover, Volteco has Certified Management System Quality ISO 9001 – ENVIRONMENT ISO 14001 – SAFETY OHSAS 18001. Volteco’s products are tested in accordance with CE Marking Requirements and when requested performance tests are carried out in international laboratories. Durability means that we check the behavior of our solutions applied over the years, in other words, we verify our actions through technical assessment. Among its specialized range of products with Amphibia Volteco presents an innovative concept of waterproofing, thanks to its high hydro-reactive capacities and several layers with differentiated functionality. Pre and post-casting waterproof membrane with high hydro-reactive properties: this is AMPHIBIA, the brand-new product just launched by Volteco. Outcome of a long work and a thorough study started in 2006 from the idea of developing hydrophilic polymers, thanks also to cooperation with some Universities and partnership with international research institutes and industrial specialists, AMPHIBIA leads to reality an innovative concept of waterproofing. This hydro-reactive membrane, made with several layer with differentiated functionality, when in contact with water allows at the different layers to swell differently thereby obtaining a complete waterproofing of the underground structures. Coming to details the first layer – Tight Barrier – is fully watertight and represents the first barrier; the second layer – Core – is a safety super-expanding, self-sealing and self-healing layer that in case of breaches seals the fastening nail or the passing body; the third layer – Active Barrier – is a hydroreactive, expansion-controlled, for self-sealing of overlaps and the fourth layer – Grip – is a special textile designed to be fasten to concrete. In this way the structure of the membrane consists of a continuous extruded multilayer polymeric sheet with different functions. The energy inside the core of the membrane, in presence of water infiltration, performs a continuous and active waterproofing pressure keeping the structure dry. AMPHIBIA is available in 2 versions: AMPHIBIA 3000 (POST-CAST) and AMPHIBIA 3000 GRIP (PRECAST) and both are available in double width: 90cm or 180cm. The Pre-cast version is self-gripping to concrete thanks to a non-woven textile and guarantees an exceptional mechanical adhesion of the membrane to the structure. AMPHIBIA is indicated for any type of building such as residential and industrial dwellings, shopping malls, commercial areas, historical buildings renovation and sport complex facilities. It provides excellent performances in presence of concrete underground structures that needs to be protected and waterproofed such as basements and cellars, existing underground spaces, swimming pools and containment tanks. Choosing Amphibia means to choose the highest qualification in underground waterproofing, a specialized solution for concrete protection and long-term efficacy. A safe choice that will make you forget about the problems of water infiltration, cellars and garages inaccessible, underpasses flooded and difficult reparations. A choice guaranteed by a name, that is Volteco, which, on the one hand, is synonymous with quality, technology and innovation, on the other hand it is next to designers, installers and contractors providing easy and quick solutions which does not reserve unpleasant surprises for an unique, safe and durable installation over time.