Liberia has dedicated the newly constructed ministerial complex worth US $53m. Public Minister, Mabutu Nyenpan officially turned over the facility to the president of Liberia, Dr. George Manneh Weah. Also Read:Uganda launches construction of the Inspectorate of Government Towers Construction of the building was initiated by the former president during her presidency and constructed by Jiangsu Construction Engineering Group. The building sits on an area of 24,000 square meters and features offices, meeting rooms, lecture halls, multi functional conference hall, archive room, administration rooms, and dining hall. The development also has 255 parking spaces and other auxiliary facilities, which include water pump room (reservoir), substations and distribution room, generator room. Some parts of the building are already well-furnished. Mr. Mabutu Nyenpan said that the facility will host host six government ministries and agency. The Chinese special envoy handed the symbolic key to president Weah and ex-president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. The five ministries and one agency expected to be in the complex include; Agriculture, Education, Labor, Gender, Commence and Civil Service Agency. These six government entitles have been accommodated in private building for decades. Government spent millions of United States dollars on leasing private buildings for its ministries and agencies. This is the largest Chinese government project for Liberia. It constructed the largest soccer stadium, Samuel K. Doe Sports complex, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the University of Liberia Fendell campus and the newly dedicated Terminal at the Roberts International Airport. The Terminal was also dedicated on July 25, 2019. TNR “This building signifies a very special relationship that has existed between the PRC and the people of Liberia for many years,” the Vice President said, thus affirming Liberia’s commitment to upholding the “One China Policy.” said Ellen Johnson Sirleaf “One-China policy” is a policy saying that there is only one sovereign state under the name China, despite the insistence by other parties that there are two states, the PRC and the Republic of China (ROC), both of whose official names incorporate “China.”  