Design Group Nigeria was established in 1954 and incorporated as a company in 1959 with the principal activity of providing full architectural services for building projects of all kinds. The company whose offices are situated in Lagos, lbadan and Abuja, offer provide comprehensive consultancy services including the full range of building professions, civil, structural, electrical and mechanical engineering, landscape and interior design and quantity surveying. Design Group Nigeria pride themselves in various projects they have embarked on including; Marriott Hotel, Lagos, Intl. Convention Centre Abuja, New British Council Offices, Abuja, Intercontinental Hotel, Lagos among others. Ebisike Tochukwu Architects Ltd (ETA) is a full service architectural firm, offering services in Architectural planning, building construction and the project management sector. The company is among the top architectural firms that through their expertise address common areas of concern including scope, resource availability, and project controls to turnaround a troubled project quickly. ETA has an international chartered membership with the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) which seals its quest for professional excellence in the practice of Architecture. They are also registered with the Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA). The company applies the latest concept of value engineering and regular design reviews, Quality Control during design is ensured. They strategically carry out thorough project planning before engagement to site. ETA’s design–build polices relies on a single point of responsibility and is used to minimize risks for you, our client. Their design–build procurement route changes the traditional sequence of work. It answers your wish as the client for a single point of responsibility in an attempt to reduce risks and overall costs. ATO Architects was established in 1987 and has since then climbed the ladder in becoming among the top architectural firms in Nigeria. In 1996, it became incorporated as A.T.Onajide Architects Limited and subsequently ATO Architects Limited. The firm’s design philosophy provides workable, aesthetically pleasing solutions to a myriad of simple and complex design problems and clients’ requirements in order to create flexible, environmentally sensitive, functional and cost effective buildings and spaces. With a solid operational base in Nigeria, ATO Architects is also registered to practice in the United Kingdom and in South Africa.  Among the company’s achievements is the most recent of which is the 17-storey, 3-tower headquarter building for the Federal Inland Revenue Service at Abuja. ATO Architects have been providing sustainable solutions for residential as well as commercial buildings since the early 1990s.  Most of their work has been carried out in the tropics, and we employ the basic principles of building design and orientation to maximize ventilation through buildings and minimize solar radiation.  This ensures that buildings are comfortable and are not energy-hungry. They have LEED Accredited Professionals who are currently doing projects where LEED and Sustainable considerations are a requirement of the Clients. Arc de Vinci Consulting is a full service architecture, engineering, planning and interior design firm with its Archifirm Subsidiary which carries out all its building construction located in Abuja, FCT. By consistently blending bold designs with responsible, environmentally-sound practices, it has made the company maintain a leading edge in the construction industry. The firm makes it a priority to build strong, open working relationships and communication channels with our clients insuring satisfaction from the initial phases of planning and scheduling to project completion. Arc de Vinci Consulting are additionally experienced and skillful in making certain that the final project scope and budget meet organization’s strategic and financial objectives. Quoinix Associates is a leading architectural design-build firm specializing in residential and commercial developments. The company provides unique design-build solutions to home owners and property developers using contemporary high-tech design software and processes to generate a virtual building model that enhances clear communication of project design proposals. This provides greater value for our clients through comprehensive documentation of their projects for seamless implementation on site. The company is uniquely popular due to their exceptional customer service by building personal relationships with clients and exceeding client expectations through a service orientated, streamlined and practical approach for all their projects. Quoinix Associates create three-dimensional models and photorealistic visuals of development proposals using a variety of different professional computer software programs and tools.