Construction works of six public free zones in six Egyptian governorates has begun. CEO of General Authority for Investment and Free Zones (GAFI) Mr. Mohsen Adel announced the report. The free zones are expected to support different industries and also to export products to markets in the Arab region, Middle East, Africa, and Europe. They shall be located in the governorates of Sharqiya, Minya, Giza, Kafr al-Sheikh, South Sinai, and Aswan. Also Read:Construction of Naivasha special economic zone in Kenya begins The Board of Directors of the New Urban Communities Authority (NUCA) approved establishment of a public free zone in the 10th of Ramadan City of the Sharqiya governorate over an area of approximately 500 acres of land during a meeting chaired by the Egyptian Minister of Housing Assem al-Gazzar on Sunday. This will be the largest free zone in Egypt. After the completion of the 10th of Ramadan City free zone, Adel said that they will proceed to establishment of the Minya Free Zone, in Matahra. Minya Free Zone will be designed specifically for textile and waving industries. It shall be the first textile industry in the Middle East region and the entire African continent. The government will also establish another free zone in the Herafieen (Craftsmen) City in Giza.  This shall be fully specializing in electronic and electrical products. Another free zone which shall be specialized in the petrochemical and plastic industries according to the GAFI’s chairman, will be established in the area of Metobas in Kafr al-Sheikh. This public free zone will be integrated with Kafr al-Sheikh Industries Area. Currently the Nuweiba free zone, linked to the port of Nuweiba in South Sinai, and which will export products to the markets of Europe, East Africa and the Arab region is under construction. Work on the Aswan public free Zone shall be executed by GAFI together with NUCA during the second half of the year. The projects are set to be completed during the 2019/2020 fiscal year. 