Historically speaking, copper roofing has been in use since prehistoric times. And for plenty of good reasons, as well. Ancient roof builders and constructors have discovered that the secret to having a well-established, long-lasting, and amazing-looking roofing structure at the same time lies in no other material than copper. And ever since then, the copper has become arguably the best option on the market. No matter what you’re building: a medieval cathedral, a castle, a church, a modern public building, or just a regular house. That’s why we present you with the clear advantages of opting for a copper roofing instead of some other choices out there. Absolutely no other roofing option can compare with the copper when it comes to longevity and durability. There are literally thousands of proofs that can support this claim. So many medieval buildings are still around to testify that copper can last literally hundreds of years. And the craziest part about the copper roof is that it only gets better as it ages. Since we’re talking about getting better and improving. Buildings with copper roofs or domes are bound to have an amazing aesthetic appeal, on top of their length of service. Copper roofs age like wine – they only look better when that much sought-out green patina covers their surface. But even if you’re not a fan of that particular look, you can always make sure that the roof preserves its previous look. Copper roofs are easily maintained, so you don’t have to worry about investing a lot of money and time to keep it in the desired state. Although copper isn’t the cheapest material on the market, it’s still the best option in the long run. You may end up paying a bit more than you would for wooden or asphalt shingles from the start, but we have to remind you here again about the longevity of copper roofing. Wooden of asphalt shingles can last for approximately a quarter of a century, while the roof made out of copper will still be in his prime even centuries later. So, when you’re making a calculation about which material is going to be the most cost-effective, you need to make sure you add this piece of info into your reckoning. Another clear advantage of having a copper roof is that it’s a lightweight material that almost any kind of structure can support. But even though it’s easy to install, you still want to see that the things are done properly. Just make sure to hire professionals like those behind First Class Slate, and leave nothing to chance. Copper roofs weigh significantly less than the concrete tiles or slate shingles. Which is another thing that can save you a considerable amount of money. Being so lightweight and easy to install, you’ll need less labor and materials to install your roof. On top of being lightweight, easy to install, aesthetically pleasing, durable, and cost-effective. Copper roofing is probably the safest option as well. It’s fireproof, waterproof, and antimicrobial at the same time – which are all great qualities for your roof. The fact that copper is eco-friendly and recyclable adds a cherry on top of the cake. This is especially important in today’s day and age, where ’global weirding’ is threatening our environment in such a profound way. That’s why the ability to recycle as much as we can, places copper at the top of our list of materials used for roofing. In this article, we gave you some of the most distinct advantages of having a copper roof. Since the dawn of time, copper has been in use for capping buildings in a premium way. Other than the things we’ve mentioned, copper roofs also offer lower thermal movements. If they’re properly designed and installed. That’s why we can’t stress out enough the importance of doing this the right way. Not only will your roof last even longer, but it will also look better over time.  Copper roofing also provides you high-value retention because of this: your house will potentially generate a higher real estate value if you choose to cap your home with such an amazing material like copper.