Elematic, a global leader in precast concrete production technologies, launches a new automatic Modifier E9 for precast hollow-core slab production. The new machine offers not only accurate, fast and flexible marking and digging of cutting lines and openings but also significantly reduces concrete consumption in precast plants. Elematic Modifier E9‐1200m is used for digging openings and recesses and drilling water holes on fresh concrete slabs on a hollow core production line. The machine can also plot cutting lines, openings and text. The Modifier is designed for automatic operation, but can also be operated in semi‐automatic and manual mode. Elematic Modifier E9 features efficient concrete recycling. This is enabled by not using any water in the digging process which means that concrete removed from openings can be recycled back to the extruder in the hollow-core slab production process. The Modifier thus forms an efficient working couple with the new Elematic Extruder E9, the smart recycling system of which can efficiently feed used concrete back to the production process. Slab quality is ensured by mixing the used concrete gradually with fresh concrete as well as with a time limit; the used concrete will not be fed back to the process if it is older than a factory specific preset time value. Together these machines are a perfect match increasing efficiency and sustainability of hollow-core slab production. Concrete consumption with Modifier E9 is further reduced by an advanced digging mechanism that ensures minimum amount of concrete left on the bed. The Modifier E9 saves considerable time by eliminating the need for manual marking of cutting lines or making openings for lifting loop installations and through holes. The machine uses wireless technology to transfer bed plans to its FloorMES machine control system, and it can take the plans directly from BIM systems. Location information is acquired from the laser positioning system. The laser uses a mirror at the end of the bed to measure distance. Reducing the need for manual work improves production efficiency, eliminates mistakes and improves safety on the shop floor. Like all Elematic machinery, safety features are built-in. The Modifier E9 is fitted with a safety buffer on both ends, including light sensors, which protect the area in the middle of buffers. In addition to these, there are also ultrasonic sensors, which add to safety, but also make it possible to pause the operation when getting close to the extruder, for example. The operation can be resumed, when the obstacle moves away.