Being one of the world’s largest photovoltaic manufacturers, Sharp Corporation has been a driving force behind the use of photovoltaic technologies for almost 60 years. Sharp offers solar modules for the environmentally conscious energy production, battery solutions for the time-independent use of stored energy and the “Smart Chap” energy manager for controlling energy. To date, Sharp has delivered more than 50 million PV modules worldwide. The solar sector in Africa is an important part in Sharp’s strategic worldwide diversification plan, where access to energy is a challenge for so many people. Sharp introduces its industry leading range of 12 photovoltaic (PV) modules and various battery storage solutions which are now available to all customers across Africa. The potential for high quality PV systems in Africa is very large; there are few areas on earth that have such consistent and excellent solar Irradiation all year round. Given the pressing need of supply, the requirement to increase the access to a stable electricity supply with the ability to rapidly scale up makes PV the ideal solution. As solar is a modular system it allows both on grid and off grid application in both commercial and rural settings and can be up-scaled to meet the customer growing needs or when finances allow. As fossil fuels become more expensive and with the falling costs of PV and BOS both for a small and utility scale installations will be a key market driver in countries where a regulatory has been put in place. PV helps African countries to become more independent from hydropower, which is important in many countries due to longer dry seasons. Another advantage, PV can cover the high demand for a reliable electricity supply among all segments: off-grid and on grid, mini-grids, residential, commercial and utility scale plants. Another important aspect are the current grid connection charges in sub-Saharan Africa, which are among the highest in the world relative to income. Therefore, high grid-connection charges can make PV systems very attractive even in areas served by the grid. Business wise, Africa offers a huge market for Diesel/PV Hybrid systems due to the immense number of diesel generators in use in many African countries. This can help to reduce Diesel costs and become more independent from sometimes unreliable Diesel supply. Sharp is pretty well prepared and will satisfy the needs of their business partners and whose customers in the best sustainable and reliable way. Sharp Corporation takes it step by step and focus on a sustainable, reliable and steady growth. Their target groups are local distributors with a good network to the local market. They don’t want to rush and risk any market/business development. They build the markets up step by step. Their core markets for time being are South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana, Egypt, Algeria, Kenya and Uganda. Their goal is to build up a partnership with one to two local distributors in each of those key markets. Sharp has the largest module range in the market and aims to have the best warranty in its class to support its growing distribution network on the continent. Sharp has a guaranteed positive power tolerance (0/+5%) and a 25 year’s linear power output guarantee. Beside Sharps customer can be sure to have a company as a partner who can look back on an over 100 years’ history with 60 years’ experience in Solar, a very stable financial background with a proven track record of 13 GW solar and more than 1 million satisfied customers worldwide and of course belonging to the Tier 1 listed companies. This all together is the best pre-condition to successfully serve the sometimes challenging African