Construction of Grand Anse Mahe Dam, in Seychelles is soon to commence. This is according to Italian-based company, Studio Pietrangeli, the project development. Studio Pietrangeli said that final feasibility report and detailed design of the new dam is expected to be ready in January next year to pave way for construction works to begin. The study was commissioned in 2017 by the company overseeing the project in Seychelles – the Public Utilities Corporation (PUC). Services sought for include: assessment of alternatives to constructing the dam; assessing a possible hydropower plant to accompany the dam; impacts assessment of the designed project, which entails environmental and social considerations and resettlement actions; and readying of tender documents for the diverse project components, among others. Also Read:Tanzania to construct a major dam in Njombe District Situated in Mahe district, Anse dam is a major part of Seychelles’ major infrastructure initiatives. It is part of the country’s water supply development 2030. It will help the island nation with water security at a time of rising visits from tourists. This is the third major feasibility study for the construction of a dam in the Grand Anse Mahe district. The first study dates back to 1972, and the second one was commissioned in 1991 and undertaken by GIBB – a Mauritius-based consultancy. An Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) study has been conducted by local environment consultant, Eco-Sol, and the findings were presented to the inhabitants of Grand Anse Mahe. The study looked at the social, economic and environmental impact the construction of the dam will have in the area. According Water and Sewerage in the Public Utilities Corporation (PUC), the dam is projected to around 850,000 cubic metres of water, with a daily yield of 9,600 cubic metres. “This is quite significant because today with a small treatment plant at Grand Anse Mahe, we are producing, 3,000 cubic metres per day. So the dam will greatly increase capacity for the entire western and southern regions,” said Steve Mussard, Managing Director of PUC. Some concerns however were raised by inhabitants including noise pollution during the construction phase, destruction of biodiversity as the area will be flooded, and impact on economic activities such as agriculture. 