Two Kenyan based property development firms, Innovative Planning & Design Consultants (IPDC) together with Hayer One Group, were honoured at the International Property Awards, held at the London Marriott Hotel Grosvenor Square Hotel. The awards were handed to Jatinder Thethy, Founder and Principal Architect at IPDC and Chetan Hayer, the CEO of Hayer One Group for the development of the Best Commercial High Rise Architecture (The Address) and the Best Residential High Rise Architecture (The Marquis). The two buildings, the address and the Marquis, were competing against other projects of the same caliber from Dubai, Africa and Arabia. Located along Waiyaki Way in Westlands, the Address was designed by IPDC for the developer, Hayer One Group. The development features a two-level show area that faces the adjacent motor way, creating a gallery that draws pedestrians and road bound on-lookers in, through its 10 mm laminated, acoustic glass-clad facade. It stands tall among its peers along the busy thoroughfare. Its high quality fit out, top range business amenities such as high speed elevators, ultra-modern security and ample parking, make the building a future forward location, while staking its presence and claim as the Waiyaki Way landmark and Kenya’s quintessential business address. Also Read: Kenyan Property scoops top awards at Global Fete The Marquis is a distinctive 2, 3 and 4 Bedroom twin tower apartment, set atop a multi-level parking garage in Kileleshwa. Acknowledging each other through their side by side assemblage, the towers form a “V” shape, at the bottom of which, is a luxurious deck and infinity swimming pool. For the Marquis, IPDC took the brief of creating a pinnacle of modern architecture and delivered it through a reinforced concrete structure, of masonry block walls. The Dubai, Africa and Arabia Property Awards are the largest, most prestigious, and widely recognized programme throughout the three regions. The awards are judged by an independent panel of over 80 industry experts that is chaired by members of the House of Lords in the UK Parliament. Judging focuses on design, quality, service, innovation, originality, and commitment to sustainability. 