There is a growing population with a large need for clean drinking water as well as a lack of infrastructure and sanitation facilities and an uncontrolled discharge of wastewater which pollutes the water sources in Africa. The extensive reforms and important investments that are taking place along with the rising economic growth rates of many African Countries (i.e. Ethiopia, Uganda and Kenya), make Africa a promising market. The following are top water treatment plants manufacturers in the world WEC Projects is an experienced EPC contractor providing engineered solutions in the water and wastewater treatment industry. Established in 2002 and based in Johannesburg, WEC Projects is active throughout the African continent. The company provides containerized package water treatment plants for drinking water and domestic wastewater or sewage. They also provide custom engineered turnkey solutions for water and wastewater treatment. WEC has a division called WECAssist, which provides after sales service, speciality chemicals and operations of plants across Africa. DEVISE ENGINEERING S.A. is a top Designer and Manufacturer of Packaged Plants and Equipment for the Treatment of Water and Wastewater in Decentralized Municipal and Industrial Effluent Applications. DEVISE packaged plants are modular and easily deployable around the world, ideal for decentralized applications. They can be adapted to operate in all continents and under all weather conditions. They require minimum installation and are ready to Plug & Play. Also they can be relocated in just a few weeks and upgraded just as efficiently. Therefore, DEVISE Water Solutions can be extended to larger cities – not just smaller communities. According to the company, water and wastewater treatment plants have to be designed and constructed under certified procedures and follow internationally recognized standards in order to be able to guarantee high performance, reliable operation and treated water quality. Only treatment plants that are professionally designed and built and use the best materials can fulfil the performance and effectiveness required for such an important task as the water treatment process. Therefore, the selection of a Credible Designer/Manufacturer with a proven track record and extensive experience in the field should be one of the prevailing factors to be taken under.  WaterIcon is a South African based company specialising in a full range of water treatment services. Whether municipal, residential or industrial water treatment solutions are required;their turnkey services are available for both small and large scale projects. WaterIcon is one of the biggest importers of water treatment equipment and a large stock holding of quality international products. They at the cutting edge of innovation in the field, drawing on world class technologies and working closely with our global research and development centres. The company focuses on R&D, lab analysis, trial plants and putting forward the right solution for each application. This is very important in water treatment as every application is unique. WaterIcon as a company advises one to be careful in sourcing products just on price. It is vital that customers look at the quality of the products and the back up service that is offered by suppliers. The Feralco Group was founded in 2000 by the acquisitions of the water treatment businesses of Alcan and Laporte in UK. Since then the company has continued its strong growth through external acquisitions and new industrial plants. One of their unique aspects of their water treatment products is that they are 17/18 % active substance, constant quality, clean white colour.  