The government of Nigeria has flagged off reconstruction of 25-kilometre Dekina – Ayingba road in Kogi State after 58years. Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello who performed the ceremony revealed that his administration decided to embark on the reconstruction exercise as part of efforts to inoculate improvement in the standard of living of the people of Kogi State. The road project contract was awarded to TEC Engineering Construction Company and works will take nine months to be completed. It was first constructed far back in 1961. Reconstruction of the road would make the commuters to have an end to many years of suffering in the passage of it. “There won’t be unnecessary delay or encumbrance in the project this time which means that it will witness quick completion in its commencement,” said the Governor. Also Read:Nigeria to begin construction of Ishawo and Igbagbo roads Nigeria has been experiencing rising population and recurring hunger as a result of soaring
prices of staple foods. This makes transport a very strategic aspect of development of rural
areas and their productivity especially in relationship to agriculture. Transport is one of the
elements that play important part in boosting agricultural production and also in preventing
post-harvest losses. However, in most parts of rural Nigeria, people hardly travel easily because the condition of the rural roads is generally bad. In fact, travel in rural Nigeria takes place with great difficulty. Many communities are often cut off from others. Particularly during the rainy
season, most of the roads deteriorate and become impassable thereby subjecting the people to low levels of connectivity. According to Chief Maintenance Engineer of the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) in Kogi State, Engr Kuti Adedamola, most of the federal roads in Kogi State have gone bad to the extent that they need total rehabilitation, not patching. To curb the condition, the governor also promised also to rehabilitate the path leading to the Ejeh’s palace, which he said it is in deplorable condition among other roads in future. 