Construction of a 500-bed Afari Military hospital in Atwima Nwabiagya Municipality of the Ashanti Region in Ghana is expected to be completed by the end of this year. This is according to Minister of Defence Mr Dominic Nitiwul. The Minister mentioned that current civil works are 90% complete while that of housing is about 50% complete. Overall works are 70% complete. He further noted that the facility will be handed over to the government in the second half of 2020 after electricity connection are done. Also Read:Construction of Terrewode Women’s Community Hospital in Uganda complete Construction of the medical facility, which commenced in 2014, and scheduled to be completed in July 2016, had stalled because of delayed tax exemption approvals. The tax exemption, was eventually granted in 2017 after the contractor, Messrs EDI, had been on site for almost three years. “The project suffered contractual disputes between the main contractor, Messrs EDI and the sub-contractor, Messrs MBS and Messers Hanisa, which lasted for eight months, leading to the (termination) of the sub-contracts. The case is currently in court,” explained Mr Nitiwul. “The ministry however re-awarded the sub-contracts to new sub-contractors, Messers Africa Building Partners and Messers Core Construction, which took a while too due to background checks that were required and completion of all necessary documentation. The new sub-contractors moved to site finally in November 2018 to commence work which has steadily progressed to date without break,” he added. Scheduled to be built at Tamale, the project was relocated to Accra, before it was finally moved to its current location at Afari. The agreement for the facility was signed between the government of Ghana and Messers Euroget Da Invest SA in August 2008, for the 500-bed facility with residential staff housing as a Turnkey project to be completed within 42 months of commencement. With the project credit facility approved by Parliament in November 2018, the contract agreement was revised in January 2010  