Construction works on phase 3 of the Grand Egyptian Museum project is 90% complete. Egypt’s Prime Minister Dr. Mostafa Madbouli announced the reports when he site near the Giza Pyramids to review the progress. Laurens Schokking, the Project Director explained to the Minister that concrete and steel works had hit 98% and 99% progress respectively. He added that mechanical, engineering, and plumbing works at the museum, including the main building, the central square and the Ramses hall as well as the 3,200-year-old statue of King Ramses II that weighs 75 tons at present stands at 84%. Laurens also noted that finishes were 96% complete. He foresees completion of phase 3 of the project by the end of this year. The Grand Egyptian Museum’s phase 3 is being built by Egyptian contracting company, Orascom Construction, together with Besix Group from Belgium, which is one of the leading construction companies ranked 69 in the list of top international contractors. Also Read:Egyptian Museum in Tahrir to receive a US $3.4m revamp The mega museum is situated near the Giza Pyramids about 2Km away on an approximately 500 000 square meters piece of land. Phases 1 and 2 which included the construction of the museums conservation and energy centers are already complete. Grand Egyptian Museum is one of the largest museum in the entire universe presenting a heritage devoted for a single civilization and it is designed to include the latest technology, including virtual reality at a whopping cost of US $1bn. The museum will also be an international center of communication between museums, to promote direct contact with other local and international museums. It shall, in addition, include a children’s museum, conference center, training center, and workshops similar to the old Pharaonic places. The GEM is expected to house around 100,000 artifacts from various periods of Egypt’s wealthy long history. Anani said that approximately 20,000 artifacts would be exclusively displayed for the first time ever on this structure. The artifacts according to the GEM’s General Manager Tarek Tawfik, is composed of two 7,000 square meter galleries revealing King Tutankhamun lifestyle; how he lived, dressed and ate in addition to the complete collection of his precious belongings. This displays have never been shown before since it’s unearthing in 1922.  