There is an increasing demand for improved sanitation facilities such as better toilets, improved sanitary ware products, etc. as less than two-third of the global population has access to it. However, sanitary facilities are improving due to the increasing demand for improved sanitation facilities as well as rising supply chain efforts from industry participants. One such key industry participants is the players in the sanitary ware market. Rapid economic growth along with higher purchasing power among consumers is supporting the growth of the overall construction market. Consumers now invest in high and premium sanitary ware products and hence players in the sanitary ware industry are focusing more on design and technological aspects. The following are top sanitary ware manufacturers LIXIL Africa manufactures and supplies the highest of quality products, they only use DZR brass which withstands the corrosion and rust found in many water lines. Certain of our products are made specifically for low water pressure environments  which is key in many of the African markets. In Africa the quality of the water in many areas in very poor due to the fact that it is from boreholes and wells and therefore contains a lot of sediment, which is very hard on products such as taps and flush valves for toilets and urinals as it tends to block the filters and restricts the water flow. Hence their products are designed to capture the particles of sediment which allows for the smooth and efficient use of the products and ultimate water experience for many years. Their products are very easy to maintain as the designs allow for self-cleaning and maintenance and also offer various water saving products.  Hansgrohe Hansgrohe has been in existence since 1901. The have timeless designed products, all manufactured according to German quality. The company offers various spray types of showers and have 3 different basin mixer heights which ensures that the basin mixer fits perfectly with the basin of choice. Their catrigdes are designed for any type of bathroom or kitchen and are long lasting. Hansgrohe indulge in latest technologies in their products, from AirPower that mixes air with water to ensure water is used but still ensures consumers still get the premium quality showers. Flush Bathrooms has become a trusted name in the South African bathroom industry. They are suppliers of specialist and luxury bathroom furniture. Each of their products is different in it’s form or functionality. The company takes great pride in assisting architectural and interior design teams to create the best bathroom specification for their individual. They offer sound technical advice and have a qualified technician on call to assist plumbers with any possible queries. Lucia Murray from the company advises that to know what style or look and functionality you want to achieve.  TENNE is an Austrian brand sanitary ware founded in 1973. Its design, combining science and technology with fashion and art, is highly recognized by European customers. Austria TENNE  has the R&D center of the whole category of sanitary ware, relying on its own sanitary ware such as cabinet, cast stone sanitary, hardware faucet, shower room, to the industry leading technology and excellence in manufacturing process, to create excellent quality products. The company has become one of the most effective bathroom fittings suppliers for many local and international companies, putting their focus on providing full-service solutions for every customer who seeks a reliable manufacturer and project management team for their projects.  Impacto is a Spanish company founded in 1997 dedicated to the distribution of finishing construction materials. The company has branches in Africa, mostly in Nigeria from Which they work in different axes:such as, Trading of building and finishing products through our Company Impact trading Nigeria Ltd. One of their unique aspect the company boasts off is quality as they guarantee 100% satisfaction in all aspects.  Noken Porcelanosa Bathrooms is from PORCELANOSA Group and it specialises in bathroom fittings. Since it was founded, the company has been setting itself apart by offering the best in technology, quality and exclusivity in its bathroom elements; from toilets and bathtubs to the newest taps; as well as washbasins, bathroom units, showerheads, shower trays, towel dryers and bathroom accessories. The company is always committed to taking care of every last detail. Its efforts in design, quality, the commitment to sustainability and the excellent service offered to its clients place/put Noken at the top of the business rankings in the sector. As well as that, its bathroom products are exported to some 110 countries all over the world. Production, following each element from its origin, is another of its pillars/foundations. Pieces are made with the greatest of care and expertise, reminiscent of tradition, despite the large production volumes and company distribution. Noken advises one to take note on banking on the guarantee and responsible solutions with the consumption of resources. “In a market that has traditionally been very price-sensitive, we would recommend that customers should think long-term and bank on the durability of the materials, as well as on the solutions which contribute to saving water and energy; even more so in parts of Africa where access to resources is sometimes restricted.” 