Bouygues Batiment International construction company has together with their modular construction laboratory Dragages Singapore, completed the construction of the 459 feet Clement Canopy buildings in Singapore. With its completion, the building is now the holder of world’s tallest modular buildings title which was previously held by George Street, a 135-metre tower erected by Tide Construction in Croydon, England. The 40 stories Clement Canopy is a housing project situated on the heart of a residential and student district in Singapore. The two towers structure made up of 1,899 modules was designed by a local architectural farm known as ADDP Architects and it houses 505 two-, three- and four-bed apartments, with a swimming pool complex at the base. Also Read: Nigeria to construct US $10.6m tower in Lagos Bouygues Bâtiment International’s head of modular construction Aurélie Cleraux said that each of the 1,899 modules was around 85% finished off-site, before being transported and assembled onsite. “The module’s structures were precast in a yard in Senai, Malaysia, then a factory in Tuas, west Singapore, carried out the fit-outs including painting, windows frames and glazing, doors, wardrobes and MEP (mechanical, electrical and plumbing) to a nearly finished stage,” revealed Aurélie Cleraux, He added that upon arrival at the site, the modules were stacked and installed at the same time the concrete core was built in a carefully choreographed sequence. The team embarked on this challenging mode of construction due to the many gains it comes in handy with. First, by industrializing and building 50% of the project offsite, loss of time due to poor on-site weather conditions are eliminated. Secondly, each module can be manufactured under strict quality control, treatments, and defects can be managed prior to handover hence dwindling the chances of imperfection. And lastly, it is more eco-friendly in that it increases onsite waste management.  According to Cleraux, this method enabled them to practically reduce waste onsite by 70% and around 30% offsite with a central materials and logistics platform.   