In its 2019 news, Duravit shows how it has perfected the art of holistic bathroom design. Heightened emotions contrast with state-of-the-art technology, soft forms meet geometric contours. New trends in surfaces, colors and materials round off the doctrine of holistic, individually designed bathrooms of a unique quality. Wherever state-of- the-art, comfort-enhancing technologies are used, they are always invisibly integrated into the new products, ensuring perfection in every respect. With two new bathroom series, an accessories series, three faucet series, the new SensoWash ® Starck f generation, a new shower tray system, one bathroom furniture series in the entry-level price point and two in the top-end segment, numerous technological innovations, logical additions to the range, and new colors and surfaces, Duravit is defining the future of state-of-the-art designer bathrooms. Duravit and sieger design present the Viu ceramic series and the XViu furniture range. A complete bathroom range imbued with a sculptural air. Soft, organic forms encounter geometrically precise contours that create a strong frame. High-quality combinations of materials and surfaces made of ceramics, glass, or metal contrast with matt lacquers or wooden surfaces to produce stylish collections from “Silver” through to “Dark”. Striking V-shaped metal profiles in elegant Champagne Matt or avant-gardistic Black Matt shape the characteristic look of both the c-bonded metal console and the wash area solutions comprising vanity unit, mirror, mirrored cabinets, and free- standing bathtub. Happy D.2 Plus is the product of a collaboration between sieger design and aimed at realizing the latest trends in surfaces, colors, and design drawn from the archetypal open oval of the design classic Happy D. Above-counter wash bowls with their precise lines, single consoles, and matching semi-tall cabinets and circular mirrors combine to create perfectly harmonized washing areas. With new color variants in sophisticated Anthracite Matt, also with a two-tone contrast on above-counter wash bowls and bathtub, Happy D.2 Plus brings a splash of color to the bathroom. Style collections in light and dark tones underpin the vibrant, self-confident look. The new Starck T accessory line combines functional rigor with organic shapes. A characteristic design feature is the fluid transition from the round base to the geometric “T” shape, similar to the branching of a tree. There are no disruptions to the well- proportioned design thanks to the concealed fixing system. All 16 elements of the series are available in chrome or the on-trend color Black Matt and harmonize perfectly with all Duravit series. Duravit and Philippe Starck present a new shower- toilet generation, with two versions available: SensoWash ® Starck f Plus and SensoWash ® Starck f Lite; Convenient to operate via a remote control, freely configurable via an app, with a minimalist design and maximum shower-toilet comfort. All components have been subjected to further technological development and configured such that the technology is now located entirely within in the ceramic body. All that is visible externally is a flat seat with a height of 40 mm. The seat and the white cover located behind it form a harmonious unit. The D.1 faucet range saw Duravit team up with Matteo Thun and Antonio Rodriguez to create a new iconic design. The unique, perfectly-proportioned design is realized through the dynamic, fluid transition from basic cylindrical shape to a super-flat outlet. With the precise elegance and sophistication of the Chrome or Black Matt surfaces, D.1 sets a bold statement in the bathroom. The electronic D.1e variant features a flat, circular operating button with an integrated LED color ring and offers a wide range of functions for intuitive high-end comfort and safety. The new Tempano shower tray system was developed to enable straightforward and efficient installation. Key issues were flexibility, time-saving; extremely secure fitting and noise-protection standards. Available in 27 dimensions, the new acrylic shower trays can be deployed easily and extensively in renovation projects and newbuilds: flush with the floor, semi-recessed or surface-mounted variants are available, and with or without the newly developed tray support depending on the specifics of the construction project in question. The state-of-the- art design follows a linear slope with a high drainage rate. Founded in 1817 in Hornberg in the Black Forest, Duravit AG is today a leading international manufacturer of designer bathrooms. The company is active in more than 130 countries worldwide and stands for innovation in the fields of signature design, comfort-enhancing technology and premium quality. In cooperation with high-profile international designers, such as Philippe Starck, EOOS, Phoenix Design, sieger design, Kurt Merki Jr., Christian Werner, Matteo Thun and Cecilie Manz, the company develops unique bathrooms that enhance quality of life for users on a sustained basis. Duravit’s product portfolio comprises sanitary ceramics, bathroom furniture, bathtubs and shower trays, wellness systems, shower-toilets, tap fittings and accessories as well as installation systems.