Novablue Industries, the leading manufacturer of Cable Management Systems, operating under the brand name of ‘Novablue’ with its production facility in Jebel Ali (Dubai, UAE) has been serving the UAE, OMAN, QATAR, AFRICA and other markets through its strong distribution networks in various regions. At Novablue Industries, they manufacture the following; 1) Cable Trays 2) Cable Ladders 3) Cable Trunkings 4) Underfloor Trunking 5) Raised Floor Trunking 6) Wire Basket 7) Support System Their entire ranges of products are customized, manufactured and feature improved appealing design to suit the needs of their end users. They are renowned for their range of products, superior quality, production capacity and timely delivery and responsiveness, considering the rapid changing dynamics of the markets and their clients. Fundamental to success of Novablue Industries is its professional approach, dedication, qualified technical staff, continuous improvement cycle and its strict adherent to ISO 9001:2008 Certification. Novablue Cable Trays are manufactured in accordance with British Standard BSEN 61537:2007, IEC 61537 NEMA VE1. Cable Trays are available in different types such as Light Duty, Medium Duty and Heavy Duty with Straight Flange, Outside Return Flange and Inside Return Flange respectively in standard length of 3meters. Their corresponding fittings and accessories are also available in Hot Dip Galvanized finish complying with BS EN ISO 1461:2009, ASTM A123 and Pre Galvanized finish complying with BS EN 10346:2009 (BS 2989). Custom designed trays for special installations can be provided on request and also in different finishes to suit all requirements. Novablue Cable Ladders are manufactured in accordance with British Standard BSEN 61537:2007, IEC 61537 NEMA VE1. Cable ladders are available in different types such as Light Duty, Medium Duty, Heavy duty and Extra Heavy Duty with Outside Return Flange and Inside Return Flange in standard length of 3meters. Their corresponding fittings and accessories are also available in Hot Dip Galvanized finish complying with BS EN ISO1461:2009 and ASTM A123. Custom designed ladders for special installations can be provided on request and also in different finishes to suit all requirements. Novablue Cable Trunkings are designed to ensure easy installation and are available in standard length of 3meters complying with BS 4678: Part 1:1971.Trunking covers are fitted with jet locks or screw locks depending on client specifications. Novablue trunkings are manufactured complying with BS EN50085:2010(BS 2989). Custom designed trunkings for special installations can be provided on request and also in different finishes to suit all requirements. Novablue produces all kinds of support systems that are specifically meant for easy installation of ‘Novablue’ Cable Management Systems complying with BS 6946:1988. The comprehensive range of Channels, Cantilever Arms, Base plates, Beam Clamps etc are made in Hot Dip Galvanized finish complying with BSEN ISO 1461:2009 and ASTM A123. Pre Galvanized Steel (PG or GI) Pre galvanized steel is zinc coated by a hot dip process. Steel strip from a coil is fed through a continuous zinc coater that cleans the fluxes and coats the steel with molten zinc. After cooling, the steel is recoiled. This is an effective and economic anti corrosion finish suitable for interior applications. Hot dip galvanizing is the process of applying a zinc coating to fabricated iron or steel material by immersing the material in a bath consisting primarily of molten zinc. The simplicity of the galvanizing process is a distinct advantage over other methods of providing corrosion protection and enhances the life span of steel. Galvanizing forms a unique metallurgical bond between the zinc and the underlying steel or iron, creating a barrier that is part of the metal itself. During galvanizing, the molten zinc reacts with the iron in the steel to form a series of zinc/iron alloy layers. The photomicrograph of a galvanized steel coating cross-section shows a typical coating microstructure consisting of three alloy layers and a layer of pure metallic zinc (HV stands for Vickers hardness), that offers the opportunity to develop a much thicker zinc coating. Novablue Industries takes particular care to ensure that a coating of 45-55microns is achieved and that distortion of components is minimized. However, this is a hot working process and some distortion and surface roughness may be evident. Stainless steel is an iron-containing 12 to 20 percent of alloy—a substance made up of two or more chemical elements—used in a wide range of applications. It has excellent resistance to stain or rust due to its chromium content allowing it to be used in rigorous environments. To make stainless steel, the raw materials—iron ore, chromium, silicon, nickel, etc.—are melted together in an electric furnace. This step usually involves 8 to 12 hours of intense heat. Next, the mixture is cast into one of several shapes, including blooms, billets, and slabs and then it is cast into solid form. After various forming steps, the steel is heat treated and then cleaned and polished to give it the desired finish. Powder coating is a dry finishing process, using finely ground particles of pigment and resin that are generally electro-statically charged and sprayed onto electrically grounded parts. The charged powder particles adhere to the parts and are held there until melted and fused into a smooth coating in a curing oven. Before coating, the parts to be coated are first pretreated similarly to conventional liquid coated parts. The pretreatment process is normally conducted in series with the coating and curing operations.