Construction of US $4.4m Mama Ngina grounds project in Kenya nears completion. Tourism CS Najib Balala announced the reports and said that the development is 76% complete. “We have toured the site and is satisfied with the progress. The project will be handed over to the national celebrations committee in August to enable it to start to prepare for the Mashujaa Day celebrations. All coast counties would be given a chance to showcase their culture and talent,” said CS Najib Balala. Also Read:Ghana allocates US $1m per constituency for markets construction The modern waterfront project was scheduled to be completed by end June but it had to be redesigned to include the building of the presidential square leading to the delays. The project being constructed by Suhufi Agencies Ltd on a 26-acre land, is envisaged to spur a 24-hour economy as it will have a 1000-seat amphitheater, a cultural center, five pigeon tower, open air fresco restaurants and cafes, fun park and water sports among other features. The project design also shows that a new jetty for water taxis and living boat museum will also be constructed near the Likoni channel crossing. The CS said that the government will enter into a Private Public Partnership (PPP) to ensure that the park is maintained to high standards. Balala noted that the ministry’s Principal Secretary Joe Okudo will tour the project twice every week to monitor the progress of the construction and added that after the celebrations, traders who were displaced from the area will be given the first priority when it comes to modern stalls allocation. The country’s President, Uhuru Kenyatta, who commissioned the project in January expressed his satisfaction with the transformation of the grounds saying the project will restore the glory of Mombasa town as a leading tourist destination. Mombasa will be the fifth county to host national celebrations traditionally held in the capital, Nairobi. Other celebrations have been held in Kakamega, Nakuru, Machakos and Narok. 