Construction works of the Sokode-Ho Dual Carriage road project in Ghana is at 34% complete. This is according to Deputy Roads and Highways Minister, Kwabena Owusu Aduomi. Deputy Roads and Highways Minister, Kwabena Owusu Aduomi affirmed the reports and said that the road which was originally scheduled to be completed in February 2018 will be completed by the end of this year. “The completion date has been extended to 31st December, 2019. The extension was due to a variation order to relocate some utilities and construction of additional drainage structure,” said Mr Aduomi. Also Read:Zimbabwe opens upgraded Ngundu-Tanganda highway The dual carriage road runs from Sokode to the centre of Ho, the Volta Regional capital. The project was awarded in May 2016 and is being funded by the Consolidated Fund. Works completed to date, he said, include the construction of 0.9m, 1.2m and 1.8m diameter pipe culverts, and construction of box culverts of varying sizes at various locations. Other works done so far are filling of culvert approaches including raising of road in low-lying areas, laying sub-base course at some sections of the road and laying of crushed rock base course at some sections. Mr Aduomi said that outstanding works to be done, included additional drainage and kerb works, laying of sub-base and crashed rock base courses, asphalt concrete binder and wearing courses, paving of walkways and median works, road line marking, installation of traffic lights and construction of lay-byes Moreover, the deputy minister said works on the 14km Ho by-pass dual carriage road from Sokode Etoe junction on the Accra-Ho highway through the University of Health and Allied Sciences campus to Titrinu on the Ho-Aflao highway is “substantially completed.” He further added  that the Department of Urban Roads, has commenced procurement of the phase II of the project which would be funded by the Ghana Road Fund. “The ministry is reviewing the engineering designs and projected costs of the phase II after which bid will be invited from eligible contractors,” said Mr Aduomi. 