Kenya is currently experiencing an outburst in road construction because of the considerable resource allocation to infrastructural development by the county and national governments. The country continues to take the front row contracting and financing mega projects ahead of other East African states. The achievements can be credited to the road construction companies who have wholly attributed to various road building firms that are reputable for their quality of services and timely delivery of projects. The following are top road construction companies in Kenya H-Young (EA) Limited is one of the leading road construction companies established in 1951. The company is located along Funzi Road, off Enterprise Road in the Industrial Area, Nairobi. The company guarantees client satisfaction through investing in in modern equipment. They own and operate in excess of 1,200 units of plant & equipment (780 units are front line pieces). These include; Earthworks – All heavy machinery involved in excavation, drilling, carting away, back filling, leveling and compaction. Concrete – Concrete batching, concrete handling – pumps/ dumpers, trans-mixers. Asphalt – Crushing plant, asphalt processing plant. Construction Aids – Transportation, cranes, Generators, Compressors, scaffolding, pumps, tanks and general maintenance equipment. Their storage and garage yard (approx. 850,000 sq. meters) stores their main equipment, support workshop, fleet management system, concrete block making plant, concrete batching plant, as well as the parking yard (10,500 sq.) for heavy equipment and project materials. All equipment is thoroughly checked and repaired prior to release to job site. H-Young (EA) earns its popularity with their remarkable projects among st which is the rehabilitation and upgrading of First Avenue Eastleigh & General WaruingeStreet. The project consisted of rehabilitation and reconstruction of two adjacent city roads an urban densely populated area which included the dualling of an existing single carriage way, relocation of services, construction of reinforced concrete drains, bus bays, roundabouts and foot bridges. Also construction of 2 km trunk sewer line. China Wu Yi Limited is state-controlled with main headquarters in Fuzhou, China, and a local branch was established in 2002. In 2012, China Wu Yi Ltd had acquired US $334m in international projects. And in 2013, China Wu Yi Limited was running eighteen construction projects in Kenya. The company was the lead contractor in the construction of the Thika Superhighway in 2006. Other key projects done by the company include the US $37.2m first phase of the US $1.23bn modernization of the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and the US $63.9m project of tarmacking the first phase of a road between Kenya-Ethiopia border town of Moyale and Isiolo. Additionally, China Wu Yi was in 2016 awarded another lucrative tender to expand the 25-kilometre Waiyaki. The company has also been placed among the 250 largest international contractors as ranked by Engineering News-Record. Sinohydro Construction Company was founded in founded in the early 1950s in China and now operates in eighty-seven countries including Kenya through its five regional offices. As of 2018, it had projects with a total value of US $42.5bn. Among the company’s top projects embarked on is succeeding in succeeded in winning the thirty-one kilometer Nairobi’s Northern Bypass dualling tender. Intex construction has 100 years of civil engineering experience in East Africa. Establishing itself as the leader in the industry, having handed over many iconic projects and built more roads in Kenya than any other company. Their experienced has prided the company to be one of the largest local contractor in Kenya. The company has built their reputation as a construction and infrastructure development company that puts people first. This has seen them completing various infrastructure works; Over 3,500 Km of roads completed over the last 65years. Intex Construction Limited after being founded in 1982, made an entry into the road sector in 1998 and had their contract awarded and Successfully gravelling over 400 km of road over in Nakuru, Trans Nzoia, Rift Valley, Kitale airstrip, Kaptama road, Gituamba road and Endebes – Suam road. Their main project verticals include:construction of Diani Beach Tourist road, Waa-Mswambeni road, Nairobi Airport- Athi River road among others. Norken International Limited is a Kenyan company registered in October 2001.Over the years, Norken has become a leading provider of consultancy services in different disciplines of Engineering, Environmental and Project Management. Norken is a company owned by its employees and this factor has managed to harness their passion and energy driving up the level of employee engagement and participation across every aspect of our service delivery agenda. Norken is registered with the Ministry of Public Works Architectural Department Consulting Civil/Structural Engineers and National Environmental Management Authority as a firm of Experts. They offer consulting expertise in design, construction and supervision of infrastructure and development projects in multiple disciplines including transportation. Some of projects the company has embarked on include;RFP for Consultancy Service for Design Review, Construction Supervision and Contract Administration of Sirari Corridor Accessibility and Road Safety Improvement, Project: Isebania-Kisii-Ahero(A1) Road Project. Lot 2:Kisii-Ahero Section, Design of Roads/Footpaths and Drainage in Bandani Informal Settlement in Kisumu and Supervision of Construction Works in Informal Settlements in Kisumu and Kericho Counties among others. Achelis Kenya Limited is a fully Kenyan owned and controlled company incorporated in Kenya on December 13th 1960 (incorporation certificate number 4904). The company has a long history in Kenya and has operated successfully for over 55 years. The company has grown and expanded over the years to two branches in Nairobi and Mombasa, and 120 members of staff. Achelis Kenya Limited has two subsidiaries, Achelis Material Handling Limited and McLeod & Co (EA) Limited. The group is affiliated with Joh. Achelis&Sonhe GmbH, a global trading company registered and headquartered in Bremen, Germany (since 1826). The Achelis Group of Companies recently moved its Head Office to new ultra-modern premises on Mombasa Road, 10 minutes from Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA). The new Head Office (Akili House) comprises of an administrative building and state of the art workshop and spare parts stores.