Construction of Mwale Medical and Technology City (MMTC) in Kenya is on tract and edging closer to completion. The project is centered on a state-of-the-art medical and technology complex located within Butere Sub-county, Kakamega County, in the western part of the Republic of Kenya. It is being constructed at a cost of US $4bn. Currently, two out of three of its construction phases are 100% complete and the last phase which is currently under construction is well over 40% complete. Also Read: Kenya to build 30MW solar park in Mwale Medical and Technology City The MMTC will consists of five districts which are; Plaza District
This is the first district and boasts of a sprawling multimillion-dollar shopping complex, international standard supermarket serving a wide selection of organic produce, the Hamptons Café Bed & Breakfast, more than 100,000 square feet of private residential homes and the 5,000-bed Hamptons Hospital which has an Advanced Cancer Treatment and Diagnostic Center, a Cardiovascular Center plus a Renal Center. The plaza district is also home to the technology Park where development of advanced healthcare technologies will be conducted. Airport District
It comprises of the world’s largest convention center, a 35-acre Disney-style water park, and a private international airport; all connected to the 5,000-bed Hamptons Hospital via cable car. Grid District
Grid District comprises of residences along the Boulevard. It runs over a 3 kilometers stretch from First Street all the way to Twelfth Street, forming a grid like system along the Boulevard. Golf District
Golf District hosts the 36-hole Hamptons Championship Golf Course expected to be the largest in Africa; as well as 4,800 homes for doctors, nurses, and other residents of the City. The golf course envelops the natural beauty of the lush green rolling hills, large granite boulders, and fast flowing rivers and streams. It also has amenities such as private bar, restaurant at the Hamptons Golf Club, a spa, swimming pool, tennis courts and fitness center. Industrial District
This district is host to the 144MW waste-to-energy power plant which will convert all hospital and municipal solid waste into clean renewable power. It will utilize an advanced and proven technology called air-fed gasification (AFG) that works by heating waste to produce gas which spins turbines to produce clean and reliable electricity. It will be producing its own water for cooling the plant from the waste as well. This technology is the world’s cleanest waste management solution, ensuring the environment remains pristine for generations to come.