There is frequent use of standard drilling equipment which ensure buildings don’t collapse in cases like heavy rains. Big drilling manufacturers are currently working on autonomous drilling machines, that can in theory be operated out of everybody office or home. The following are top modern drilling equipment manufacturers The internationally renowned Morath GmbH has specialized in the areas of drilling and anchor technology. Morath offers individual solutions for drilling equipment in mining, tunnel and road construction as well as in the areas of avalanche control, protective barrier rehabilitation, slope nailing and geothermal technology. Morath drilling technology stands for the highest standards, quality, continuous innovation and also for stability and continuity. They develop adequate solutions for the smallest of tasks right up to your major projects. In addition to our existing customers, more and more companies from around the world are choosing our products and our customized solutions. Their machines are not only customized to your specific needs, but also manufactured by us. As market leader, we offer consulting, development, manufacturing and service solutions from one source. Ahmed, from the company advises one to Know-how and experience for solid solutions more important than only buying machines. Industrial equipment supplier Vermeer has been providing agricultural and industrial equipment that is built tough, built to perform, built for value and backed by caring customer service for more than 50 years. Its robust dealer network consists of more than 500 dealership locations worldwide. The company also delivers a positive impact on the more than 3,000 team members of Vermeer and its affiliated companies, who have chosen to build a lasting, successful career at one of its worldwide locations. These are people who are committed to making a difference in the communities in which they live and work. The company’s unique aspect in the machines include; Reliability, Durability and Longevity. This has contributed to the large market share Vermeer holds. Other aspects include ease of operation, ease of maintenance and common controls throughout the entire product range. The operator controls on the smallest Vermeer drills are identical to these of the larger pipeline installation rigs and that enables fleet owners to have all machines sizes being operated by same HDD personnel. Herrenknecht is the only company worldwide to deliver tunnel boring machines for all geologies and in all diameters – ranging from 0.10 to 19 meters. The product range comprises tailor-made machines for traffic, supply and disposal tunnels, technologies for routing of pipe lines, as well as additional equipment and service packages. Herrenknecht also manufactures drilling equipment for vertical and inclined shafts as well as deep drilling rigs. In order to always be close to your projects and jobsites, with around 80 locations we are represented on all continents. With horizontal directional drilling technology from Herrenknecht, pipelines can be installed rapidly, economically and with minimized impact on environment and existing infrastructure. Later application of the pipelines include the transportation of oil & gas, sewage water, district heating, high-voltage power lines, cable bundles for telecommunication and more. HDD Rigs are highly adaptable in diameter and lenghts of the borehole and used mainly in stable, loose soils and rock. 