South Africa’s North West agricultural town of Vryburg is set to open its first enclosed shopping mall in 2020. Chief Operating Officer of the project dubbed Twin City Vryburg, Ryno De Leeuw  announced the reports and said that the project is currently in the planning stage with the mall expected to start operations in the last quarter of 2021. Also Read:South Africa to extend US $8.5m Elim Mall in Limpopo The Twin City Vryburg will be housed at the 20 000 m2 mall. The project will be undertaken by leading Pretoria-based shopping centre developers and investors, Twin City Development, in partnership with Vuno Developments at a cost of US $16m. The Vryburg development site, which forms part of the town’s CBD, is located on the N18 national road into town. Vryburg is situated in the Naledi Local Municipality and seat of the Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati District Municipality in the western part of the North West Province. The N14 national route also cuts through the town, which connects North West’s capital Mahikeng (159 km away) with the Northern Cape’s capital, Kimberley. The development will be a modern, one-stop shopping destination to the people of Vryburg and surrounding communities. It have will have three anchor tenants, 70 stores, restaurants and service outlets all under one roof. The new mall will have a Food Court and water features – firsts for the town and will offer a family-friendly, safe and clean shopping environment. Established walkways already exist to the shopping centre’s development site from the largest township in Vryburg, Huhudi. This means the new mall will provide direct access to pedestrians who currently walk to the town’s CBD for shopping and access to government and other services. Twin City has a pedigree in shopping centre development going back some 35 years, having been established in 1984. Today, it has a portfolio of 10 shopping centres, more than 250 000 m² of gross leasable area and some 800 leases under management in Mpumalanga, Limpopo and the Free State. The Twin City Vryburg project will be the newest retail venture, which will expand the Twin City’s portfolio and geographical footprint to yet another province.  The mall will have a primary catchment area of more than 14 500 households, while there are over 23 000 households in its secondary catchment area. 