Whether you are planning to sell your home or not, raising its value is by all means desirable. However, most homeowners give up on this idea because they assume it will cost them tens of thousands of dollars. In reality, there are low-cost updates that have the potential to significantly increase the value of your home in the real estate market. They require a small cash investment and a few hours of labor to turn them into reality. Once the prospective buyers arrive to have a look at your real estate, they will be willing to spend extra to acquire it. The human hand and the palm are often sweaty so we leave a trace of dirt on whatever we touch. This means that surfaces that we grab onto often are prone to deterioration more than other parts of the house. Door handles, cabinet handles, and other knobs lose their shine years after they have been installed. However, if you go through the trouble to polish them a bit, you can restore their former gleam. Once all polished up, they will catch the eye of people who enter your house and indicate that you are running a sparklingly clean household. One of the largest surfaces in the house are the floors. If you have hardwood floors then there is bound to be a chip somewhere on its surface. Instead of changing the entire floor, you can simply replace the damaged slab and then polish the whole floor. An even faster solution is to place a carpet or a mat over the problem area to conceal the damage. Of course, you should wash the carpet with some shampoo in order for it to smell nice. As far as the bathroom is concerned, a little bit of cleaning should do the trick. Wall tiles and the space between are generally the dirtiest surfaces in the room where you shower. In some cases even mold can appear, so you need to scrub good! You should replace the grout and the caulk that are damaged beyond repair and wash the rest of the bathroom walls. A mixture of baking soda and lemon juice should make for a good homemade cleaner, alongside a brush. Also, if you wish to redecorate the bathroom, they buy a new shower curtain as they are usually under 5 dollars but they can change the atmosphere of the entire bathroom because of their size. One of the biggest problems in Australian homes is the loss of the intensity of colors of the interior fixtures. This occurs due to the punishing summer sun that has the power to fade out the upholstery on a typical sofa after a mere decade. Exterior surfaces are even more exposed to deterioration and fading out. It is no wonder then that residential painting in Sydney is a service highly sought after. By repainting the inside walls and the front façade, you are giving your home a new fresh look that even passersby in the street will notice. Whether it’s the front lawn or the living room sill, flowers and plants of all sorts look outright good. If your house is green throughout, you are sending the message that the whole place is well looked after. Plants require natural light and regular watering to thrive so if they are verdant, people will naturally assume that you’re a good caretaker. If you’re not a green thumb, to ease things up, you can always get one of those houseplants that are easy to look after. You can even create a green corner in the living room, filling it out with potted trees, like a lemon or an orange tree. Have you ever asked yourself what’s the first thing a person approaching your house notices? It might not be the most obvious answer but it’s the front door that grabs onlookers’ attention the most. Apart from doing the façade, you can apply a new layer of paint on the front door. For this DIY job, you’ll need a can of a tacky color, like yellow, blue or green. You want the front door to stand out from the rest of the house with its design and hue. People move a lot nowadays and it is only a matter of time before your front lawn gets the “for sale” signed. When the realtors arrive, you will be glad that you have updated your home with the least amount of money possible. In return for your effort, you will get at least several thousand dollars more when the final price is set.