Kenya Electricity Transmission Company Limited (KETRACO) has officially launched the Loiyangalani-Suswa transmission infrastructure project. The launch ceremony was attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Energy Cabinet Secretary Hon. Charles Keter, Energy Principal Secretary Eng. Joseph Njoroge and senior Management led by the Chief Executive Officer, FCPA Fernandes Barasa OGW. Also Read: Nigeria to upgrade its 7 critical transmission power lines The power project that accolades the Government’s commitment to increase electricity generation to 5,000MW and which is a part of Kenya’s Vision 2030 flagship projects, as well as being critical in achieving the Big Four Agenda on sustainable development will see an increase in electricity supply, quality, reliability and a reduction of power cost in the country. With the 310MW, approximately 15% of the country’s installed capacity, added to the national grid, Kenya will save at least US $150m annually on fuel imports used to generate electricity, thanks to the project.The fibre optic cable transmission lines strung along the Loiyangalani-Suswa section carry internet fibre – Optical Ground Wire (OPGW), used for data and communication purposes. OPGW is the most reliable connectivity compared to buried cable and for that the cables will promote broadband connectivity in areas it traverses enabling faster connectivity to voice, data and video services, security surveillance and other government digital services. The project begun in 2010/’11. It included construction of 428 km 400 kilovolt (kV) transmission Line that would evacuate 310MW of power generated by the Lake Turkana Wind Power (LTWP) project to the national grid at Suswa (near Longonot) and construction of two power transmission substation, one at the Loiyangalani project site and a new terminal substation at Suswa. The contract was first awarded to Siemens S.A.S (France) and later to a Consortium of NARI Group Corporation and Power China Guizhou Engineering Company Limited. The transmission line rated at 1,200MW will take care of future generation plants along the area it traverses, which will comprise of solar, geothermal and other wind farms, without necessitating construction of another transmission lines.