The Government of Liberia has signed an agreement with the Government of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) to construct two overhead bridges as part of Liberia’s five-year strategic plan, the Pro-Poor Agenda for Prosperity and Development (PAPD). China Foreign Minister, Wang Yi confirmed the reports and said that further strengthen bilateral co-operation with Liberia the two countries signed a US $29.5m deal as the first tranche for the implementation of projects agreed to during the bilateral meeting. Also Read:Ghana inaugurates Tarkwa-Damang road This first tranche was transferred into a joint account at China Development Bank to be administered by both governments for the projects implementation. The projects include construction of the  two overhead bridges and the SKD Boulevard, respectively; the provision of food aid to be monetized and used for development purposes; among others. Construction of the two overhead bridges are expected to ease the traffic congestion at the SKD Boulevard and the new ministerial complex in Liberia. Mr. Wang Yi further pledged an amount of US $300,000 “In Kind” – to the country’s Foreign Ministry to enhance its productivity and to build capacity. Responding, Foreign Minister Findley thanked State Councilor Wang Yi on behalf of President Weah and the Liberian Government for China’s continued support to the country’s development agenda. He re-emphasized Liberia’s adherence to its “One-China” policy, which has deepened the relations between both countries. Minister Findley emphasized Liberia’s preparedness to work with China in promoting the objectives of Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). He expressed thanks to China’s deep interest in building strong ties with Africa, particularly Liberia; noting that in April, both countries concluded a memorandum of understanding at which time Liberia formally joined the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Minister of State Nathaniel McGill signed the MOU on behalf of Government when he attended the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation held in Beijing. 