Ethiopian Airline has announced plans to construct its second five star hotel in Addis Ababa at an investment cost of US $150m. Abraham Tesfaye, Ethiopian Airlines Group manager Infrastructure Planning and Development announced the reports and said that the hotel is being built adjacent to the the first hotel on a 22,000sqm of land. Also Read:Shelly Beach Hotel in Kenya to reopen after US $10m makeover The hotel will feature  637 guest rooms, restaurants, bars, conference hall, swimming pool, fitness center and a basement parking which can accommodate 550 cars. Chinese construction firm, AVIC has conducted the design work and will also undertake the construction of the second hotel. The first Ethiopian Skylight Hotel, was built at a cost of US $65m. It sits on a 20,000sqm plot of land in front of the Millennium Hall. The hotel has has eight floors with a total floor area of 42,000sqm and 373 guest rooms Ethiopian Skylight Hotel features three restaurants – a Chinese restaurant, an Ethiopian restaurant and an European restaurant, a lobby, executive roof top and a jazz club. 27 of the guest rooms are spacious suites. The Hotel was designed and built by AVIC, while a local consulting firm, Sileshi Consult, carried out the supervision work. It also encompasses a grand ballroom designed to accommodate 2000 persons convenient for conference and wedding parties and also has five meeting rooms which can accommodate 20-30 persons. “Addis Ababa is the main gate way to Africa. The hotel will play a significant role in boosting the tourism sector and making Addis Ababa a conference hub,” said Busera Awel, VP Strategic Planning and Alliances. Busera however clarified that both hotels are catering for not only Ethiopian Airlines passengers but it is open for the public. “The hotel is hosting local, regional and international conferences. It is an ideal venue for company staff and management meetings, weddings and other events,” he said. When the second hotel is completed Ethiopian Skylight Hotel would have 1,000 guest rooms. Ethiopian government has an aim of making Ethiopia a top tourist destination in Africa and increase the number of tourists streaming into the country to 10 million.