Towable generators are a reliable source of backup power. These generators can be used for a variety of commercial and industrial applications. Towable generators are a common sight at concerts, sports events, outdoor parties, and constriction sites. If you want to use it for a building you need a wired generator connection panel for manual transfer of power. The towable models are ideal for powering up air conditioners, heaters, security systems, computers, refrigerators, and freezers. In the past, almost all towable generators ran on diesel. Now users have many choices. You can buy very efficient units that run on propane and natural gas as well. These generators can supply power during emergencies to shops and offices as well. These days, units that run on gasoline, diesel, natural gas or LPG are more desirable. You can have an unlimited supply of gas coming from the kitchen gas lines. LPG cylinders are easy to store and use. All towable generators are built to withstand harsh weather conditions. Generac, Kohler and Briggs & Stratton build world-class models to meet the need of the demanding market. For industrial use, you can get the larger units mounted on a trailer. These are many types of generators used in commercial applications. You can buy one for permanent installation or buy a towable unit. Size is also important while considering a unit for your place of business or manufacturing. Gasoline, diesel, propane, natural gas and so forth are just a form of energy that is used by a generator set to produce electric power. When the primary source of energy is disrupted, the backup generator furnishes the electric power. Seamless continuity of power is possible with an installed unit that is wired to the electric panels well. On the other hand, a portable unit will have to plug into the system as and when required. In all buildings, the use of permanently installed units is common. There is no need for a mobile generator in these buildings. The only exception is a hospital which may own towable units to power specific parts of the campus. For commercial use, a standby system is more preferable. For roadside jobs, the towable units are commonly used. They generate less power but it is ample to run lights and the construction tools. The power generation capacity of the mobile generator is less than the permanent ones. When you know you need more power for a specific number of days or months, get the towable type for your factory. Sometimes the surplus of orders results in renting more machines to meet the project timelines. In such a scenario a towable generator will keep these additional machines running and you can produce more to meet the new production targets. The price of mobile units varies. Generac produces very good models that you may want to look into. Generac Magnum MMG55DF4 Mobile Towable Generator, Generac 6782 Mobile Towable Generator MLG8K/STD, and Generac MDG100DF4 STD Mobile Towable Generator with Trailer (MMG100D) are all good models. The latter comes with various options and you can select the type of trailer you need. Generac Magnum MMG55DF4 is both easy to use and maintain. It has a cabinet that is loaded with user-friendly features. The generator has a Tier 4 engine with long run time. Users are able to select the power output they require. The aluminum enclosure makes the unit rust-proof and attenuates sound. Use it for events or at the construction job site with full peace of mind. The model has a 24-hour run time and has a 3-position selector switch for power output. This sturdy and durable modern has a Power Zone™ controller and display. Use the push buttons for easy operation. Safety wise this is a good model as it has 9 warning and shutdown features. The control box is lockable and so is the lug box. The model is a bit pricey and if you want something more affordable, take a look at the Generac 6782 Mobile Towable Generator MLG8K/STD. This model features a Kubota diesel engine and is fuel efficient. The high performance of this model makes it a good choice. If you have a small load and have single phase power needs this model will be just right for you. It is portable, efficient, and rugged. It has a full tubular steel frame, lockable enclosure, fade resistant powder coat finish and is very reliable. When the oil level is low or when the unit heats up it will auto shut down so no damage is caused to the Kubota diesel engine. The best thing about the Generac 6782 Mobile Towable Generator is that it is very easy to use. The 3-cylinder engine is self-priming and the generator has the external convenience outlets with individual breakers. Sometimes in factories, the power can break down at peak hours of operations and at such times it pays to be well prepared for the situation. A backup source of power saves the day and the machines could continue running as usual. When production stops it could mean big financial losses and when orders are not delivered in time the company can also lose buyers. Manufacturers take into consideration all the needs and requirements of industrial clients and come up with models that are easy for them to use. If you need a new unit for your factory or your construction site, check online for what is on offer. The dealers can take care of all sorts of needs of clients. Towable generators come with wheels that never go flat. They are easy to store and maintain. You can find all sorts of accessories to enhance functionality. When you buy the right model, read the owner’s manual so you get more familiar with the new asset. Get a cover, weather kits, fuel stabilizer, and other accessories online at good rates. If you like a unit that is a bit beyond your budget, use the easy financing offered by dealers to make easy monthly installments. After sale service ensures the generator continues to work efficiently for long.