The road marking industry is demanding new features that mean equipment manufacturers must rise to the challenge – or lose out! In the road marking sector, there is currently a rising demand for more efficient marking equipment and documentation systems, as well as systems that offer better restore activity. Heavier road usage, extreme weather events and tighter purse strings are also putting pressure on the road marking industry. On the safety side, councils and road authorities are calling for solutions that provide higher restore activity. And for road marking contractors and operators, reliable equipment and detailed on-the-job documentation systems are necessary to complete jobs on time and on budget. In an industry that involves many variables, seasonal operating windows and ever-changing needs, suppliers must be quick to adapt. An equipment breakdown or a lack of ready-to- use material can be a major setback to tight deadlines, budgets and line quality. “We always keep our ear to the ground so that we can respond quickly to changing industry needs,” explains Lisbeth Knudsen, area sales manager at Borum. “Our products are designed to make road marking easier and make each project run smoothly. With the right technology and equipment, the road marking process is not only easier but downtime is kept to a minimum, which helps keep costs down and makes it obvious that it pays off to put your money in high-quality machines.” To increase road safety, particularly in wet weather, the demand is for higher restore activity. In wet conditions, a lm of water builds up on traditional Type I road markings, which reduces restore action. To combat this problem, Type II pro led or raised lines with a dot structure have good visibility and reaction, particularly in dark or wet conditions, and also provide an audible warning for drivers. To respond to the challenge of greater restore activity, Borum has designed a three-in- one combined extruder and ‘dot ’n line’ solution. Available in a basic or advanced model, which can be ret rotted on most machines, the dot ’n line system applies extruded base lines or dots separately, as well as unique combinations of base lines with dots. “Borum machines are acknowledged as ‘top of the pops’ when working with thermoplastic,” explains Ingo Hansen, product manager at Borum. “Heating is essential for creating a high-quality line, and one of the features that ensures a good line is the design of the heating circuit for the thermal oil. In addition, a material re-circulation system in the head ensures constant flow and prevents solids settling in the extrusion valves. The re-circulation of the material also means that you can move the machine from one site to the next without the material deteriorating and start applying lines straight away.”