Diesel generators have a low up-front cost, with even a modestly sized unit being able to provide enough power for most of the important appliances in the average home. Installation is also relatively easy which makes them the best alternative to the unreliable and expensive electricity. South Africa is one of the biggest markets for diesel generators in Africa. The market has quite a number of companies that offer various generators at different capacities and features with the hope to satisfy the user’s needs. The following are the top generator manufacturers in South Africa: Algen Power Generation is a South African based company that is wholly focused on the Design, Manufacturing and Distribution of Engine Driven Generators and related products.The company incorporates the most unique and modern concepts in their processes, thereby ensuring all round “Quality and Value”. Algen Power Generation also specializes in providing custom-built packages to meet their client’s specific requirements. Their products only incorporate original top quality products and no cheap equivalents are tolerated. Their generators are manufactured in house in their factory and undergo stringent quality checks and testing before being dispatched. The company offers a comprehensive after sales service including, general maintenance or servicing and breakdown services. The Company was established in 2007 by an experienced senior management team with years of international power generation experience.  From its establishment the Company has distributed product to 12 countries within the sub Saharan Africa region.  These products have varied from standard to specialized project installations.  The Company is an exclusive distributor for the UK based manufacturer AJ Power in South Africa. Headquartered at a modern facility in Cape Town with a second facility in Johannesburg, the Company distributes diesel fuelled electric power generating sets from 10 kVA to 3350 kVA, for use in a variety of different businesses such as supermarkets, hospitals, banks, hospitals, hotels and data centres, as well as an assortment of applications such as construction, industrial, utilities, telecommunications, residential and rental.  The Company enjoys short lead times due to its relationship with the manufacturer. The range supplied provides innovative solutions across its breadth to deliver a cost effective, reliable source of power with major components such as engines, alternators and steel all produced or sourced in the United Kingdom, Europe or United States of America.  Engines used include Perkins, AGCO Power, Scania, MTU and Mitsubishi. Aksa Power Generation has been serving to SADC countries since early 2000’s and manufacturing generators for over 30 years. As a subsidiary of AKSA Power Generation, Aksa Power Generation SA (Pty) Ltd has been established in 2015 to empower our existence in the territory to provide better after-sales services and a wide range of stock capability. It’s one of the world’s leading generating sets producers with a total output of more than 40,000 petrol, diesel and natural gas sets ranging from 1 to 2500 kVA, and multi-set synchronising systems with no upper kVA limit. AKSA has provided single systems totalling more than 25MW with fast delivery performance, from production facilities totaling more than one million sq.ft manufacturing in 4 global locations; directly and indirectly employing more than 10,000 people. AKSA Power Generation is the unique flagship brand of a vertically integrated number of businesses which include AKSA Energy, AKSA Electricity, and AKSA Gas, providing power and energy to homes and businesses; all part of the international Kazanci Holdings Group; bringing unparalleled knowledge and expertise to any project. With 14 international offices, and exports exceeding 50% AKSA provides prime and standby power solutions all around the world. Smith Power Generators has identified the best models for the South African consumer and small to medium enterprises, with a range of generators for home and business use. We import and distribute the most popular models such as the KDE6700TA, KDE8000TA and the KX20S3. We also do larger custom builds in South Africa to pass on the cost benefit of building and spec’ing locally. The Smith Power Generation production facilities are located in the Far East, covering a total area of 120.000 m2 and with more than 700 employees. The factory has modern painting and assembly lines and directly manufacturers the key components of its products. All our equipment is distributed and serviced through our authorized dealer network with over 100 dealers South Africa wide. Drawing upon their many years of experience, our dealers’ passion for the industry, in-depth knowledge and commitment to the customer is evident from first contact. Generator King supply best-in-class generator sets and associated services to a variety of sectors for numerous applications. They are a privately owned, owner managed company which has been serving the African market for more than 10 years. They pride themselves in building lasting relationships that solve power generation needs.