Buoyed by the success of Bandari Villas and Bandari Apartments Phase I, the Kenya Ports Authority Pension Scheme has embarked on Bandari Apartments Phase II. Pension schemes have realized that one of the most solid ways of safeguarding their members’ contributions is to invest in real estate. Across the country, residential and commercial projects owned by these schemes are now a common feature. Bandari Apartments is a project by the Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) Pension Scheme. Located in South C, a middle class suburb of Nairobi, the project, known as Bandari Apartments Phase II, comes after the successful completion of two other projects by the same Scheme – Bandari Villas (Phase 1, 2 & 3) and Bandari Apartments Phase I. The development consists of 198 three-bedroom units spread over three high-rise blocks in a controlled gated community that aims to provide modern, comfortable housing in a secure environment. Each of the 11 floors on each block carries six apartments. All bedrooms are en suite with a spacious self-contained DSQ. The apartments have a plinth area of 170 square metres. KPA Pension Scheme has put together an experienced team to execute the project. Led by Pinnacle Projects Ltd as the Project Managers and Triad Architects as the Project Architects, the team that began working on the project in 2018, hopes to have the project handed over in December 2020. Every apartment boasts a spacious lounge-cum-dining area and a modern kitchen fitted with high and low level cabinets. The bedrooms are all en-suite and are fitted with MDF wardrobes.  High quality ceramic floor finishes and modern sanitary fittings give the apartments a classy look. As with all modern homes, solar water heating and natural lighting have been incorporated as green aspects to the development. The developer has provided ample parking and two high-speed elevators for each block. There is a standby generator and water will be available on a 24-hour basis from a borehole. The residences are ringed with a perimeter wall with CCTV surveillance. One can access Bandari Apartments by private or public means from Mombasa Road through South Park Road (between Nextgen Mall and Eka Hotel. The apartments are currently on sale at Ksh 15,000,000. The payment terms are 15% on offer, 15% within three months after offer while the remaining 70% may be cleared during the construction period or upon completion. Client: Kenya Ports Authority Pension Scheme Project Manager: Pinnacle Projects Ltd Architects: Triad Architects Quantity Surveyor: Shaque Associates Mechanical & Electrical Engineer: Maiteri Associates Main Contractor: Jianxi Water and Hydro Power Construction Kenya Ltd Subcontractors:  