Global design and BIM software solutions provider Vectorworks, Inc. announces that it is the first architectural software developer to achieve IFC4 Reference View 1.2 Export Certification (Architectural Reference Exchange). The certification comes from buildingSMART International (bSI), the worldwide authority driving the transformation of the built asset economy through creation and adoption of open, international standards. The new IFC4 certification means Vectorworks officially meets the export criteria for the International Organization for Standards ISO-16739. This standard gives users a publicly-defined and accepted standard to serve as the basis for contracts. “The IFC file format gives focus to the standardized exchange of data when sharing information among different software systems used in the building industry, said Rubina Siddiqui, director of product marketing at Vectorworks. “In the past, IFC was more focused on the technical side of data, making it difficult to navigate for architects and designers. The alignment with familiar and accepted standards of ISO makes IFC more relatable for architects.” Vectorworks has supported IFC4 import and export since Vectorworks 2018. This certification process proves to the AEC industry that Vectorworks’ IFC4 export has been quality-tested against the bSI benchmarks, ensuring that users are sharing quality IFC models with other BIM software products. “Supporting the needs of BIM workflows for our customers has always been a top priority,” said Darick DeHart, vice president of product management at Vectorworks. “Receiving certification for our IFC4 export is a recognition of our commitment to openBIM workflows with Vectorworks.” Moving forward, Vectorworks will work to implement IFC4 Import certification once it’s offered by bSI. Vectorworks, Inc. is a global design and BIM software solutions provider serving over 675,000 professionals in the architecture, landscape and entertainment industries. Since 1985, we’ve been committed to helping designers capture inspiration, nurture innovation, communicate effectively and bring their visions to life. With our cross-platform software, designers can build data-rich, visual models without sacrificing the design process, while collaborating efficiently throughout the project life-cycle. Headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with offices in Atlanta, Georgia, Newbury and London, England and Vancouver, Canada, Vectorworks is a part of the Nemetschek Group. Learn how we empower designers to create experiences that transform the world at vectorworks.net.