The government of Kenya has announced plans to commission the Kariokor Common Leather facility in July this year. Confirming the reports, Nairobi County Governor Mike Sonko said he will unveil the market in July to pave way for the production of leather products such as shoes, belts and handbags. “Nairobi residents will now access locally made leather products in the city in the next two months after the opening of the Kariokor Common Leather factory,” said the Governor. Also Read:Pula Lobatse Leather Park project in Botswana downgraded to phases The leather factory is part of Kenya’s stride towards towards realizing its Vision 2030, the country’s economic development blueprint which aims to transform Kenya into a middle-income country. The facility is being g constructed in collaboration with the Kenya Leather Development Council. It will be equipped with modern machinery and equipment that will mechanize production of shoes which according to Sonko, will go a long way in the production of good quality shoes that meet international standards. Nairobi County has the highest number of slaughterhouses in the country with an average annual production of hides and skin at 525 tonnes, goatskin 1.6 tonnes, calf hides 31.5 tonnes, and camel hides 199. The old Kariokor market currently produces over 2 million pairs of shoes annually and the production is expected to increase significantly once the new market is operational. Upon completion, the new facility is expected to have an average annual production growth from the current 2 million shoes to 10 million shoes. This will increase traders’ annual income to more than  US $10m annually by the year 2022. Moreover the new facility will increase job opportunities to up to 10,000 in three years both directly and indirectly through subsidiary jobs. Currently the old Kariokor market employs about 1,000 people. The county will also introduce training sessions for employees on how to operate the machines. A management board will be created between the leather council, the county and national government. Other stakeholders will be incorporated to ensure the facility is managed effectively.