The decision to build your own home might very well be the most important decision of your life. This complex and nuanced project will involve experts and professionals from many industries including architecture, design, construction, legal, and finance, all working together to help you build the house of your dreams – your very own modern home on your very own piece of land. Needless to say, this is a cumbersome project that will require plenty of planning and preparation. Not only will you need to procure the land and obtain the necessary building permits, but you will also need to consider all of the features of a modern home, such as eco-friendliness and conservation, automation, and more. Nevertheless, the end result will be worth the extra effort, as building a modern home is an investment into a bright future. Here are the five steps that will help you build the modern home of your dreams. In the majority of highly-populated residential areas where houses are the prevalent form of architecture, such as a suburb, uniform architectural concepts are the norm. Architects and engineers design and build homes according to the local laws and regulations regarding aesthetics and functionality, in order to create a look that appeals to all residents – a uniform design. However, your modern home deserves to be anything but “run of the mill”. This is why grand design concepts involving custom architectural solutions have become so popular among modern homeowners. A custom-built home is not only your unique architectural legacy, but it’s also your opportunity to build a house according to your unique requirements, aesthetic preferences, and most importantly, your financial capabilities. Functional, aesthetic, flexible, maneuverable – these are some of the keywords modern interior designers use as a foundation for their plans and projects, keywords you should embrace yourself in order to envision an interior for the tech-driven 21st century. Keep in mind that designing a modern interior doesn’t mean parting ways with eclectic decor, or even rusting accent pieces, as this is the stage of the project in which you will focus on the layout, the floorplan, and the overarching design of your home. The decor elements you bring in later on will be yours to choose, but for now, focus on working with your architect and interior designer to discover the best functioning layout for your new home. Typically, a modern interior will emphasize flexibility and functionality above all else, in order to imbue the setting with comfort and improve your quality of life in every possible way. To achieve this, consider an open-plan layout that will increase maneuverability while creating a warm living environment. A modern home thrives on its external features, both in terms of functionality as well as comfort and aesthetics. These features can include passive conservation solutions such as insulation and double-glazed windows, renewable energy solutions such as solar panels and shingles, and auxiliary spaces. Particularly, sheds and garages have become essential features every modern home should have, as they not only serve a functional purpose but can be transformed into additional outdoor lounge areas and more. It’s important that your shed complements the design of your modern home, so research modern sheds online in order to discover builders that can adapt to your specific design requirements, and work closely with your contractor and architect to bring a truly modern external feature to life. Follow the same mindset for all of your other auxiliary external designs, including the backyard and the patio, the outdoor kitchen, and the outdoor lounge area. It should go without saying that building a home, custom design or uniform, is a financially-taxing project that requires careful planning and preparation. Unless you have the investment capital needed to fund the project yourself from start to finish, you will need to seek financial assistance from authorized lenders. Banks and mortgage companies are the entities you should consider first, as they can offer you construction and permanent loans essential for a smooth construction project. Typically, you will apply for a construction loan with your bank lasting nine to twelve months. Once you have completed the construction project, you will then close on a permanent, or mortgage, loan that will pay off the construction loan. From there, you can continue to make regular payments for a number of years, effectively paying off your home. On a final note, it’s important to remember that one of the pillars of modern home construction is technology. Technology should be the key driving force behind this project, as home automation is quickly becoming an inextricable part of the modern lifestyle. During the planning phase, make sure to center your plans on automation and tech-driven solutions that will allow a 21st-century home to come to life. Include smart technology and seamless connectivity of all software based hardware and appliances across your household – from the front gate to the microwave in your kitchen, everything should be connected. Building a modern home is a nuanced and complex project that requires meticulous planning and execution, but that doesn’t mean that you should settle for anything less. Follow these five essential steps, and you will have an easier time build the unique modern home you deserve.