The county government of Bungoma in Kenya has launched the Kanduyi -Musikoma dual carriageway despite controversies and human activists obtaining orders stopping the planned works. In the petition, the duo had sued Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, his Roads Executive Collins Mukhongo, Chief Officer Maurice Marango, Kenya National Highways Authority (KenHa) Director General, the Attorney General and the Controller of Budget. However, Kisumu High Court, declined to issue temporary orders stopping it. He ruled that the applicants had not demonstrated sufficient urgency and grounds to do so. The project is one of Wangamati’s flagship projects that will cost US $13m. The money will spread through three financial years: 2018/19 – 2019/2020 – 2020-2021. Also Read:KURA signs US $132m deal for stalled roads projects The project will be 6.5 km dual carriageway expected to take 24 months to construct. Work is set to begin immediately on the C33 road from Sang’alo junction on the Kakamega – Bungoma highway to Kanduyi junction along the Malaba – Eldoret highway. The stretch from Sang’alo to Kanduyi cuts right through the county’s main town and headquarters. “With the Kanduyi-Musikoma road, we are improving efficiency in the access to social amenities, making the county viable to local and foreign investments, improvement in the movement of our agricultural produce as well as giving a face-lift to Bungoma town,” said Governor Wangamati. Mr Mukhongo said that the four-lane stretch is designed to suit not just the motorists but also the community. The road is expected to provide the two motorist lanes on either side as well as a boda boda lane and pedestrian sidewalks. Aside from creating create jobs to youths in the area, the project will also also create business for those providing the laborers with food and other commodities. Other features to be undertaken on the project include; drainage, lighting up the entire stretch and three roundabouts – one in Musikoma at the Sang’alo Junction, Kiringeti stage and at Kiwanja Ndege. The tender for the construction has been awarded to Zhongmie Company Ltd, a Chinese construction firm that has also done the Kakamega-Webuye-Kitale highway. 