Generators are quite popular due to their affordability, reliability, low maintenance cost, and varied capacities. Today, Nigeria is one of the biggest markets for generator brands with almost every generator brand claiming a percentage of the Nigerian generator market. These brands offer various generators at different capacities and features with the hope to satisfy the user’s needs. The following are the top brands: This brand which has been in Nigeria for the past 20 years is a top selling brand in Nigeria. SumecFirman generators are the best value for money generators in the Nigerian market today.The key selling points of some of its generators are the relative affordability, reliability and ease of use as it comes with both key start and rope. The SumecFirman generators have wheels and handles which makes it easy to move around. The generators have oil alert system, Automatic Voltage Regulation, AVR, fuel and tank capacity, circuit breakers that continuously monitor loading conditions and automatically trips if there is a short circuit or an overload. They also have a fuel sediment cup. SumecFirman generators ranges from 1.3kva – 6kva power ratings. They come in either the SumecFirman SPG series or the Ruby SPG series. Honda Generators are among the best generators in Nigeria. The different range encompasses all that users may require.The reliability and durability of Honda products make it a good product for the Nigerian market. The generators are lightweight, portable and compact. They produce between 450 and 9000 watts of electric power. All Honda generators are powered by our advanced 4-stroke engines; this has therefore made it legendary for being easy to start. Considering the noise pollution generators usually engender, the operation of Honda generators are relatively quiet. Its power ratings range in Nigeria is from 1kva – 7.6kva. Elemax Generators are popular for their reliability. Some run on Honda engines with transistor ignition system. Elemax have generators that use recoil start system (rope and grip) and the ones with the electric (key) start system.The generators are also equipped with oil alert systems. The oil alert system continuously monitors the oil level in your generator’s crankcase, automatically shutting down the engine if oil level falls below safe limits. This can save your generator from serious engine damage. The power ratings range from 2.2kva to about 7.6kva. The Haier Thermocool brand of generators are durable and high in performance. Some of the generators have internal tanks which take as much fuel that will last all day depending on how they are used. The generators which do not consume too much of fuel have oil alert lamp that indicates the oil level. They have wheels for easy movement and AVR (Automatic Voltage Regulator) to maintain being supplied. They range from 2.0kva – 8.1kva power ratings. Some of the series the Haier Thermocool generators come in are Thermocool Optima, ThermocoolOga, Thermocool Big boy, ThermocoolIgwe. Some of the Thermocool generators have the outstanding “optimized alternator” feature. 5. Elepaq Elepaq generators are cost effective generator for your home or small business. Elepaq generators offers value for money as they have key start, recoil start, built-in AVR and overload protection.TheElepaq generators consume low fuel and there is a fuel sediment cup which prevents dirt and/or water from flowing from the fuel tank to the carburetor. Elepaq generators range from as low as 800kw – 10kva power ratings. Tiger generators is one of the most popular generator brands in Nigeria. Popularly known as ‘I beta pass my neighbor’ this brand is most famous for its below 2kva power rating generator. Tiger generators are also very popular with small businesses like Electricians, Beauty salons, small business centers, homes and so on. The Tiger brand has continuously produced high quality, fuel efficient and affordable generators. The power rating ranges from 700watts to 8kva.