Nigeria is the largest economy in sub-Saharan Africa, but limitations in the power sector constrain growth. The country is endowed with large oil, gas, hydro and solar resource, and it already has the potential to generate 12,522 (MW) of electric power from existing plants. Nigeria has privatized its distribution companies, so there is a wide range of tariffs. Below are the top electrical contractors of Nigeria Elektrint Nigeria Limited is a company that is specialized in Electrical & Mechanical Engineering, Design, Installation and Maintenance Works. We are also licensed by the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) to render services to the company’s active in the Petroleum field. In the last 36 years of existence, Elektrint has grown from strength to strength, establishing firm presence throughout the nation including masterpiece branch offices in Abuja, Warri and Port Harcourt. Elektrint Nigeria Limited is specialized in Electrical Engineering, Plumbing, Air-Conditioning, Water Pipelines, Fire Fighting and Protection, Security Surveillance System and Structural Pre-fabrication. Under a policy of Turnkey Service Package, Elektrint Nigeria Limited strives to satisfy each client’s specific requirements. In order to satisfy customers’ requirements, they are committed to procure only good quality products that meet with international standard. For this purpose, the company has a local Purchasing Department and Overseas Import/Export Organization. They also purchase Transformers. Some of their remarkable projects done include; Supply and Installation of 2.5MVA transformer and panel at UBA Marina, Lagos – 2001, Load and Power Sharing between 1365KVA and 1275KVA MTU generating sets at NNPC – 2001 among others. KSA Electric Nigeria Limited is an electrical design, erection and installation company incorporated in Nigeria and Germany. Prior to its incorporation, the company had existed with its principal staff who had worked in Nigeria and Germany since 1992 for and in partnership with public and private sectors, covering state governments and international firms. The company equally possess the facilities and resources for handling electrical engineering projects in the following scope:Urban electrification, House installation, Electrical infrastructure, Power, distribution, Street lighting, Public address system, Solar solution and High tension. KSA Electric recognizes a major supply side shortage of electrical energy in Nigeria, as well as inadequacy of local capacity to meet the urgent need of an emerging infrastructure and services market and intends to bridge the gap, in order to attain lofty development goals. Their knowledge of local and international conditions, techniques, technologies and operations enable us to provide quality services and meet our client’s requirements. AKLAB NIGERIA LIMITED is a Mechanical and Electrical Engineering Services Firm, incorporated in 1991. The firm with considerable engineering experience now has a well-structured board, management and excellent staff organizational structure. The company enjoys the co-operation to draw additional tested and well-seasoned professionals as occasion demands. Messrs Aklab Nigeria Limited has, and is continuously dedicated to the pursuit of best engineering practices based on sound and practicable economics compatible with clients’ requirements and utilizing good quality materials and equipment to provide reliable engineering services. As contractors to industrial and commercial clients nationwide Aklab Nigeria Limited provide a comprehensive range of design, installations and maintenance services on all kinds of electrical systems. Specializing in areas such as factories, schools, office blocks and warehousing our expertise extends to all aspects of electrical work, including full interior refurbishments from our own team of skilled tradesmen. Their diverse range of electrical installations services includes; Airfreak Nigeria Limited, located at 2nd floor, OLATUNJI HOUSE, 299 Ikorodu Road, Maryland Lagos, is an indigenous limited liability company incorporated in 2005 with a view to provide local alternative to the foreign organizations that dots the Nigeria economic landscape. The main trust of their activities cut across Electrical, Transformer, Telecommunication Electro/Mechanical solution provider Mechanical, building and civil engineering works and facility management. Airfreakis well equipped with modern technological amenities and staffed with the best trained and tested brains to serve our clients at any capacity, anywhere within and outside the country. It’s no gainsaying that they utilize proven technological experience and competence to deliver unparalleled values to our numerous customers and to the business community. Some of the services offered include; Transformer and Generator supply, Installation and maintenance, Industrial and Domestic wiring, and Telecommunication Electro/Mechanical Solution provider. Amongst major projects they have embarked on is Roof top RBS Construction for Airtel at Igbo-Eleran, Ajah, Lagos State and installation of 300KVA by 11KV/0.415V Transformer at Ideal Nest Hotel, Osogbo, Osun State. Energo Nigeria Ltd. is a private, engineering & contracting company founded in 1990.Years of experience has taught them to be fast and agile, keen and smart to take chances and stand for what we believe in to create value for all their stakeholders. Power generation, transmission and distribution, water and wastewater treatment, mechanical, electrical and plumbing installations for all kinds of buildings, construction of buildings and industry technologies are the main fields of activities the company is involved in. Since 1990, responding to the needs of electric-power providers, industries, Government and Public authorities in Nigeria and worldwide, they have carried out numerous services including feasibility studies, project planning, designing, construction, maintenance, commissioning and training of client’s personnel. Energo’s project managers, along with skilled personnel are involved in every stage of a project and are always available to our customers. They believe in constant coordination and communication with our clients. It makes us understand them better, see their needs clearer and enable them to serve them better and create more value. This, together with constant improvement of the Company organization, staff knowledge and skills are the basis for obtaining the best results in their projects. Some of the mega projects Energo has been involved in includes; installing equipment on a new gas power plant Azura, also on existing substation Benin North and construction of 3 linking 330kV towers, Equipment is Siemens AG. Turn key EPC project – Design, supply, construction & commissioning of 1x150MVA, 330/132kV and 1x60MVA, 132/33kV substation, Erection, Installation & Commissioning of 330kV Substation at Gas Turbine Power Plant in Kogi State among others.