The Federal Executive Council in Nigeria (FEC) has approved US $4.9m for the rehabilitation of Railway village in Agbo, Delta state. Hadi Sirika, Minister of State for Aviation revealed the reports and said that the funds approved will be used in procurement of security and safety deficiencies as well as incidence laboratory for the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). “This is a visual aid for pilots for safe operations around our airports. The total sum for the procurement included taxes with a completion period of 12 months,” said Sirika. Additionally, Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Muhammed Bello revealed that a total of six contracts were also approved by the council worth US $7m and another contract for a temporary access road in the central area of the FCT. Also Read:Ghana’s Nima and Maamobi Slum upgrading project set to commence “FCT also got approval for the award of contract towards construction and equipping a laboratory in Abuja that will cost US $1m. The laboratory is already under construction with a completion period of five months, what follows is equipping the laboratory with all items that go into the construction of roads and buildings,” said Mr Bello. “The second contract is for construction of an access road to link key anterior roads in the Central Business District that is Sani Abacha Way and Ahmadu Bello Way all in the FCT, this sums up to US $1.8m with a completion period of six months. The third contract awarded was for the design of engineering and solid waste treatment plant and transfer stations in the FCT and it is a consultancy project awarded in the sum of US $1.3m, scheduled for completion in 12 months,” he added.  The transfer stations are to serve the waste management value chain so that before you get to the final dump site, solid waste is separated according to the various grades and that makes it easier for recycling. The fourth contract approved is for the final engineering design of infrastructure and production of another tender document for sector centres E and F in phase 111 of the FCT while the fifth contract has been awarded to a capacity development programme for teachers that would handle special needs and disability education with a completion period of four weeks. 