Construction works on Kampala flyover in Uganda has officially commenced 3 months after the commissioning of the project by President Yoweri Museveni. Shimizu-Konoike JV, project contractor has begun undertaking his task on the first phase. The Uganda National Roads Authority (Unra), who shall implement the entire project together with Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA), said that the contractor started with preparatory works for redirection of both motorists and pedestrian traffic along Entebbe Road and relocation of utility lines from the target area. Also Read:Kenya launches Kanduyi – Musikoma dual carriageway project Unra’s media relations officer Allan Ssempebwa revealed that they have since signed on board a supervisory consultant for the project which is being funded by the government of Uganda and that of Japan through its overseas development agency called Japanese Integration Corporation Agency (JICA) at a tune of more than US $59m. The construction works on this phase include addition of lanes of a half a kilometer road from Shoprite at Queen’s Way towards Katwe side, improvement of Nsambya Road, Mukwano Road and part of Ggaba Road, and lastly construction of the Clock Tower flyover which will be 500 meters long. All this work is expected to be complete by the year 2021. Phase 2 of the project which will also be funded by JICA at a cost of close to US $175m, shall begin after the completion of the 1st phase. This phase shall see the construction of flyovers at Kitgum round about on Jinja Road near the Centenary Park and Wampewo Roundabout. The tendering of the design for the second phase will be announced next year. The project was conceived by JICA eight years ago after commissioning studies to explore options for easing the hectic traffic jams around the Greater Kampala Metropolitan Area where motorists who live 30 kilometers away from the city spend more than two hours on traffic before reaching their destination especially during the peak hours. The flyovers will also be connect outwards to the proposed Kampala-Jinja and Kampala-Mpigi Expressways. 