The government of Rwanda has announced plans to invest US $440m in constructing water treatment plants and supply systems in urban and rural areas in bid to ensure access to clean water across the country. Patricie Uwase, Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure revealed the reports and said that the government has earmarked funds to build more water treatment plants following an upgrade on Nzove plant and the ongoing construction of Kanzenze plant that will provide some 40,000 cubic metres to Kigali city and Bugesera District. “Since 2016 under the new water and sanitation policy we have been increasing investments. For instance, we are investing  US $440m in the next three years starting the next fiscal year. US $282m will be invested in water infrastructures in urban areas and $139m invested in water infrastructures in rural areas,” said Patricie Uwase. Also Read:Egypt allocates US $75m for construction of two desalination plants There are about eight new plants set to be constructed in two phases. Phase one includes Gihira water treatment plant to be completed by June next year while the rest will be build in the second phase since studies are still being conducted on them. The Permanent secretary issued an assurance that by 2022 all water treatment plants will have been completed. Among  other water treatment plants that are expected to increase supply to rural areas include the one at Ngoma River in Nyagatare and another at Lake Muhazi to supply water in Gatsibo and Kayonza districts. That the plant at Lake Sake will also be constructed to supply water to parts of Ngoma District while other plants will be built in Karongi District, Mugaga area to supply water to Muhanga town, Busogwe area to supply water to different parts of the southern province and the plant in Rusizi District. They are all projected to supply a combined 61,500 cubic metres of water in rural Rwanda. Patrick Nyirishema, the Director General of Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Agency (RURA) pointed out that establishing the water treatment plants will be implemented alongside new water supply systems and rehabilitating old ones. 