The United States of America has opened its US $300m new embassy compound in Harare Zimbabwe. US Ambassador to Zimbabwe Brian Nichols said the new embassy symbolized the United States’ ongoing and durable commitment to the people of Zimbabwe. “In addition to structures, we built relationships across a network of service providers,” he said. We look forward to deepening those relationships. The United States aspires to strengthen its partnership with Zimbabwe and to expand trade and investment between our countries. Embracing political and economic reform is the key to achieving these goals,” said Ambassador Nichols. Also Read:Kenya secures funds for Konza, JKIA-James Gichuru expressway projects The embassy according to the ambassador was inspired by the architecture used in the construction of the Great Zimbabwe. He noted that senior great architecture enriches the people and society around it and that the Great Zimbabwe served as the inspiration for this beautiful building. “The canopy over the main entrance draws its inspiration from the mbira dzavadzimu, or “voice of the ancestors,” a musical instrument that the people of Zimbabwe have played for thousands of years,” said Mr. Nichols. Ambassador Nichols expressed his appreciation to Government and the City of Harare for their support and co-operation during the construction of the structure. Commending the project, United States director, bureau of overseas buildings operations, Mr Tad Davis said he was proud of this new embassy’s eco-friendly features which pursue resiliency, energy savings and sustainability goals, that aim to reduce the overall environmental impact, while optimizing building performance, to enhance the self sufficiency of the campus. The US has, for the past two decades, maintained illegal sanctions on Zimbabwe that are responsible for massive de-industrialization and increased investor risks since the global superpower also sanctions countries and businesses, including banks, that deal with Zimbabwe. The US administration has not been equal to embrace President Mnangagwa’s re-engagement policy, despite Zimbabwe opening doors to dialogue and engagement. In March, US President Donald Trump extended by another year an executive order that gives effect to the punitive regime, that is seen as an instrument to bludgeon the poor and effect change of Government in Harare. But Ambassador Nichols struck a conciliatory note commending progress being made by Government to align the country’s laws to the Constitution and pledged to strengthen its partnership with Zimbabwe through trade and investment. “We are pleased the Government is moving toward repealing legislation that fails to align with Zimbabwe’s 2013 constitution. The right of Zimbabweans to express their views peacefully, to collectively bargain, and to choose their leaders via free and fair elections should never be infringed,” said Ambassador Nichols. 