Phase one works on Sandton Gate precinct in Johannesburg, South Africa nears completion. This is according to Abland and Tiber, joint developers of the project announced the reports. “Due to the high demand following the launch of phase 1, we aim to break ground for phase 2 in 2020,” said Grant Silverman, Marketing and Leasing Director, Abland. Also Read:Construction of South Africa’s Jewel City in good progress The first phase of the US $207m mixed-use development included 15 500m² commercial space, 13 000m² P-grade office space and a 2 500m² Planet Fitness positioned on the piazza level of the building. The residential component of precinct will comprise 137 units of two- and three-bed penthouses. Completion of residential first phase has been envisaged for the fourth quarter of 2020 Phase 2 according to Grant Silverman has been redesigned to include more retail offerings that will include a grocery store and pharmacy as anchor tenants, as well as a hotel and a holistic medical offering. Other amenities will include restaurants, coffee shops, salons and other convenience stores. Mimecast among others are confirmed tenants who will move in the mixed-use as of 1st November 2019. Upon completion of the first phase, the developers are aiming to hit their pre-sale target by August, meaning that construction of the top structure will begin in the fourth quarter of this year. Due to the size of the project, Abland MD Jurgens Prinsloo pointed out that they have undertook extensive traffic impact assessments to get an idea of the traffic impact once the project is complete. As part of the infrastructural advancements there will be an introduction of additional lanes to ensure seamless access to the precinct and decrease potential congestion around the area. Moreover, a new intersection on William Nicol between Mattie and Sandton drive is currently under way. “Ultimately, there are seven substantial upgrades that we are doing ranging from the Peter Place intersection, Republic intersection, Mattie intersection, Sandton drive and William Nicol,” added MD Jurgens.