Kenya has a vibrant power generation sector that holds a lot of promise. The sector comprises both private, public and government participation. A small but successful Independent Power Producers (IPP) procurement programme has been running since the mid-1990s, when Kenya Power and Lighting Company (KPLC) started to procure power from IPPs. The positive impact has also been brought by electrical contractors who provide different types of electrical contracting services. The following are the top electrical contractors in Kenya Mehta Electricals is East Africa’s leading Electrical and ICT Contractor, headquartered in Nairobi, Kenya. They provide a wide range of electrical contracting services to industrial, commercial and institutional clients across the continent. With their aim to offer quality, safe, innovative, and flexible electrical services, Mehta ensures commitment to the implementation of supporting technical, managerial and business operational systems. It is their commitment as a regional company with a highly qualified and motivated team that makes them stand out as a quality service provider. This makes the difference in  relationship with their clients, thereby assuring the company’s long term, technical and financial viability. Mehta Electricals has over 50 years of experience in electrical contracting, and has established a reputation for providing exceptional service for all types of electrical and telecommunications installations. Jumba Engineering is an engineering firm for over 30 years. They have been in existence and operational since 1982. During this period they have gained vast skills, experience and knowledge in the Electrical and Electronics Industry Jumba has specialized in electrical installation works for commercial buildings, residential buildings and public entertainment buildings, factory buildings. The company prides itself at at delivering the best quality of electrical, cctv,structured cabling works in Kenya. They also work in hand with the government of Kenya and are currently registered with the Energy Regulatory Commission with a Class A-1 Licence. The company can build or install any type of electrical system, large or small.Some of the companies and organizations Jumba Engineering has done electrical installation works for include West Media, Ministry of defense,Ministry of labour, Weston Hotel, Shujaa Mall, Office Of the Auditor General, Office Of the President,Kirinyaga University, Moi University, Alupe University, Rift Valley Technical Institute among others. Prowatt Enterprises Limited is a private company that has operated in the Kenyan construction industry for the last 11 years since its establishment in 1998. They are among the leading electrical contractors in Kenya that offer electrical engineering services, generator installation and maintenance, and ICT Infrastructure Development. Prowatt ensures customer satisfaction, by use of modern technologies and also ensures adequate training and development for safety and efficiency. The company also provides professional and technical services in the field of electrical installation to industries taking advantage of the vast growing/vibrant technologies. The company believes in quality installations and support are a direct result of qualified and committed individuals working together as a team to achieve a common goal. As such, their individual team members are well informed, well trained and equipped with efficient tools to deliver a winning solution and ensure customer satisfaction. PowerGen Technologies Limited is a leading engineering company registered in Kenya, with presence in Eastern and Central Africa. They carry out turkey projects in design, supply, installation, testing and commissioning of infrastructure for power generation, transmission and distribution; telecommunication and civil works projects for roads and buildings. PowerGen Technologies Limited is ISO9001:2008 Certified, has a strong indication to commitment to customer satisfaction and process excellence. They also have a team of highly qualified engineers and trained technical personnel, modern tools & equipment and efficient quality management systems to deliver excellent services to our clients.