The following are the top transformer manufacturers in the world GC TOP TECHNOLOGIES connects the international suppliers with the of best available technologies with the South African customers in need of improved efficiency, enhanced productivity and environmental friendly solutions. The company manufactures a wide range of transformers that conform to the quality expectations of both the domestic and the international market.  With a world class infrastructure, the company has the capability to develop world-class power, distribution, furnace and specialty transformers. These facilities are equipped with state of the art equipment and is managed by a highly skilled team of production personnel. STD Transformator was established in 2009 at Adana, Turkey as manufacturer and service provider of Oil-immersed Power and Distribution Transformers combines a significant amount of transformer knowledge and expertise of some of the most respected and renowned Turkish producers and service companies of small, medium and large power transformers in one group. The company provides a wide range of electrical transformers within the persfective of understanding customer’s requirements & applications and strive to fulfill their present and future expectations as regards Quality, Delivery and Services. It produces various types of transformers of different power and voltage complying with international standards such as IEC 60076 and ANSI, BSI, IEEE, NEMA, TS EN 60076, IS:2026 with its registered ‘STD’ brand within the scope of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001. Since it was established, STD company has aimed a controlled and steady growth and has a sustainable growth capacity offered by the vision of without compromising quality and customer satisfaction in all its services and products. IMEFY IMEFY is a leader in manufacturing of power and distribution transformers through their Control Laboratories Raw Materials and Finished Product which makes them have the highest technology to perform more thorough inspections and tests required by national and international standards for products used in the manufacture of transformers. IMEFY group has acquired a commitment to the quality of life of our society: transform and transport electricity with the maximum security guarantees from its sources to the homes of thousands of people around the world. Hughes Power System specializes in research, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of medium voltage outdoor and indoor switch gear products. They offer their customers integrated solutions with innovative and reliable products suitable for different climates and installations worldwide. All their products are developed as 3D models and analysed by FEM methods (Finite Elements) and have multi-layer circuit board design for protection relay and control systems. The company performs tests in its own medium-high voltage and power laboratory in Väckelsång, Sweden. The indoor test network can provide 6 – 145kV and up to 1.5MV and can simulate all types of protection relay settings via a comprehensive network simulator system. ABB is at the forefront of the energy efficiency revolution and provides technologies along the electrical energy value chain that typically pay for themselves within a few years through lower energy costs. Transformers are key links in this energy value chain. The company is among the world’s largest maker of transformers, pushing the voltage barrier to unprecedented levels of 1100 kV DC and 1200 kV AC, facilitating more power to be transported longer distances with minimum losses. Like any of its numerous facilities across the world, ABB’s state-of-the-art transformers manufacturing, and testing facility globally is equipped with the Latest and best-in-class processes and systems for design, manufacturing and testing. ABB also has Shunt Reactors up to 800 kV level, dry and liquid filled transformers and traction transformers. ABB is also a pioneer in manufacturing of Insulation Press Boards, Paper, Components & kits and High Voltage bushings. United Transformers Electric Company (Utec), a subsidiary of Bawan, was founded in 2001 as a limited liability company. Over the past few years, Utec has built a strong presence in the local, regional and international markets as a leading company in the field of manufacturing distribution transformers. The company is a joint venture between “Bawan” and “Wilson Transformers”, a leading manufacturer of power and distribution transformers in Australia since 1933. Utec applies the most advanced industrial technologies, taking advantage of the technical cooperation agreement with “Wilson Transformers” in Australia. The company focuses its efforts on the production of a full range of modern electrical hermetically sealed transformers, integrally filled with oil. The company also works on designing and manufacturing custom-made products to meet the customer’s needs of various key sectors. 