Phase one of the Gate mixed-use precinct in Pretoria, South Africa has began. Raoul de Villiers, Atterbury Development Manager confirmed the report and said that the project is estimated to cost US $386m. “Castle Gate is a once-in-a-lifetime development opportunity with an excellent location in a key growth node and a unique proposition that has the support of its city and is being welcomed by its community,” said Raoul de Villiers. Also Read:Largest mosque in West Africa opens in Senegal The mixed- use precinct project is being co-developed by Atterbury Property Fund and The Carl Erasmus Trust. The development will comprise of 100,000sqm of office space, 40,000sqm of specialist medical facilities, and a hotel as well as 1,100 residential units, and a 23,000sqm convenience retail centre. The precinct will also include eight hectares of protected green areas that will incorporate walking and running trails. The entire precinct is expected to be developed over the next decade and the second phase of Castle Gate is planned to begin in mid-2020. Castle Gate Lifestyle Centre will include to the latest store concepts for Woolworths, Checkers, Dis-Chem and Builders Warehouse, as well as ten restaurants including Rocomamas, Doppio Zero, Spur, Ocean Basket, Nando’s and Burger King. It will also have a Planet Fitness gym complete with a swimming pool, as well and an outdoor walking and running track through the precinct’s nature area. Inspired by openness, convenience and simplicity, the precinct is designed with a farmhouse feel that is rustic yet industrial and includes a focus on outdoor green areas. In harmony with the environment, eco-friendly building designs are being put forward wherever possible and most, if not all, of the buildings in the precinct are expected to include solar energy generation. Upon completion, the Castle Gate project is expected to create 20,000 permanent jobs as a result of its development. This is aligned with the city’s strategic pillar of economic growth, development and job creation aimed at bringing significant socio-economic benefits for the Gauteng province and the City of Tshwane. 