The government of the Republic of Uganda through Entebbe Municipality authorities has finally identified a piece of land where they intend to construct Mahatma Gandhi international convention center. The newly identified land is a 5-acre piece at Bugonga, Division A in Entebbe Municipality where the Directorate of Water Resources Management dwells. Mr. Charles Magumba, the Entebbe Municipal town clerk said that, what was remaining as of now is to forward the land title to representatives of the government of India so that they can commence the construction works. Also Read: Construction of largest market in East Africa to begin in December The government of Uganda initially planned to construct the Mahatma Gandhi international convention center at Manyago I Estates which is home to over 130 homesteads starting from July last year but the plan failed after the inhabitants of the 16-acre piece of land failed to relocate. Both Uganda and India governments had entered into an agreement for the establishment of the state-of-the-art facility and the latter offered the former around US $79m as funds for the project. The Indian government also offered Uganda another project for the construction of Gandhi Heritage Centre, which was taken by Jinja Municipal Council. Recently, the National Assembly Speaker, Ms. Rebecca Kadaga, wrote to Jinja Municipal to avail land at the Source of the Nile to pave way for the construction of Mahatma Gandhi Culture Centre. Mr. Mike Mutebi, the chairperson Entebbe Division A, said that the anticipated Mahatma Gandhi international convention center is expected to spur development in the area. “I am positive that the project is going to create jobs for our people and change the town’s skyline,” he assured. The conventional center is named after India’s founding father Mahatma Gandhi, an anti-colonial nationalist, and political ethicist, who employed non-violent resistance to lead the successful campaign for India’s independence from British Rule.