The life of a structure depends upon its stability and that is what is affected by the ingress of water; this is where waterproofing companies come in. With the upsurge in construction projects in African countries, it is very important to know the top waterproofing companies that can meet your waterproofing needs. NEUCE is a Portuguese origin company founded in 1988. The group early start to expand its activities to Africa, considering the existence of a huge market with big commercial potential. The results allowed the company to increase the presence, by installing several production facilities. Their strategy and continued investment allow them today to have a consolidated position in Portugal and be one of the fastest growing groups in the sector in Africa. Before buying any waterproofing products the company recommends one to find the source of the water/leakage. We provide that technical support.  National Urethane Industries was formed in May 1982. They have been the pioneering company within Africa supplying a basketful of waterproofing products mainly Polyurethane, Pure Polyurea, Hybrid Polyurea, Acrylic and bitumous membranes. Their products are made from the best materials available for these chemistries and are monitored under the ISO 9001:2015 quality management system. NUI employs qualified coating inspectors who have been trained by NACE and have the full support of the company’s well-equipped laboratory. In recent past NUI has undertaken a couple of projects in Africa which include Melrose Arch South Africa, Standard Bank Head Office, China City Bank, Department of Water & Sanitation, and Eskom Power Stations among others. NUI CEO, Mr. Donovan Slade comments that each and every technology has its application and position within the market. “There is no waterproofing system that is suitable for all applications or environments, it is therefore important to a waterproofing product customer to choose a company that has the credentials and experience to back their claims. Ensure that the supplier is a member of an association such as The Waterproofing association Of Gauteng,” he said. Derbit is a company born in 1932. Since its birth, Derbit has always been of paramount importance to the construction industry. This is clearly represented in its strategy: to develop innovative products and services for the sustainable construction and renovation sector. Some of their products include: Bituminous waterproofing which has double reinforcement. Classic flat roofs which has High resistance to mechanical charges and UV-rays. Their Reflective roofs are Less warming up which equals to less ageing, have Extra yield for PV installation and are capable of Recycling rainwater. The company’s Roof terraces and balconies have a waterproof extra space with carrying load, Reliable solution and Possibility of flame less application. Their Parking roofs, Bridges and roads have Outstanding resistance to heavy traffic and grit, Suited for irregular decks, Efficient application with special equipment and low and competitive processing costs. All this products have proven life span of over 45 years, they require minimum maintenance and they are 100% recyclable. Waterproofing is an old technology but Derbit has been in the front line innovating and modifying the technology to meet the current market needs. Derbits products and services are used in and outside Africa. Technical & Marketing Manager of Derbit SA (PTY) Ltd advice waterproofing customers to Stick to world renowned products that are a good value for money. “Consider the specification and uniqueness of the product e.g. lifespan, technology, etc. and ensure that your supplier is credible,” said Mr. Harland Dix-Peek. Active Holdings and Jointing are professionals who offer services on waterproofing including; Design and installation, jointing during construction and upgrading buildings, waterproofing of new and existing buildings, grouting of support systems and repairs concrete during construction or movement and age related cracking among other services. The company has being a big implementer of new technologies in waterproofing, a reason that drove it to introduce one of their own “polyurethane tile waterproofing” three years ago. Active holdings and jointing have engaged in projects such as the Houston hotel and apartments project which had one of the largest ever waterproofing service need in South Africa. Sidney Coetzee the company’s overall manager says that it is very important for a waterproofing customer to let an individual company undertake the entire process from design to installation. Based in Johannesburg, South Africa’s capital, Bitumproof SA waterproofing offers comprehensive waterproofing systems to commercial, industrial and residential buildings in South Africa and Surrounding. With years of experience & a formidable knowledge of waterproofing solutions, the company offers professional consultations & free quotations on all residential, commercial and industrial properties. Their waterproofing products have unique aspects in that, they are UV resistance, an aspect that enables them to live a guaranteed 10 year maintenance free. Their spray application system covers up to 1000 square meters a single day. All their products are Eco friendly therefore non-toxic and environmentally safe. There are no cases of overlaps with their products due to their seamless coverage aspect. Bitumproof SA products require no heat because they are entirely cold applied. Due to their product strength and flexibility, they are good enough to withhold any joint movements. Their Great adhesive properties binds well on all roof surfaces i.e. tiled roof, IBR roof, metal roof and concrete roofs and also on glass and wood. The company has applied their products and enormous expertise on waterproofing services across the Southern and Northern Africa. Some of the major projects they have been a part of include Gautrain Bombela Stations in South Africa, Maseru National Museum in Lesotho, and Nigeria’s new build hotel among many others In regards to technologies, Bitumproof SA only uses the most advanced technologies in waterproofing, their products and materials are unsurpassed in the industry. Steve Bravo, BitumProof SA Sales & Marketing Manager, recommends to customers seeking to buy waterproofing products, to go with a maintenance free solution which will not require any servicing. “This plan will ensure that no further maintenance costs and money spent will be incurred by the client on the waterproofing work performed, giving them complete peace of mind,” he added. Alchimica building chemicals has been providing solutions to waterproofing problems for over 30 years with its extensive range of polyurethane liquid membranes which are the most versatile and long term performing of the liquid applied membrane waterproofing category of products. The systems are applicable to new builds as well as renovation projects. Alchimica products have been applied successfully to numerous applications such as: Flat Roof waterproofing. Wet Rooms/Balconies/Bathrooms. Water/sewage treatment plants. Stadium stands or Car Parks. Bridge decks under asphalt.  Foundation walls and retaining walls. The company has over 600 products in the range and can supply clients with project specific products to suit working conditions and any environment. The products are tested and approved by European Organization for Technical Approvals (EOTA) and they carry the European Alchimica has executed a lot of projects since they began operating.  Lately they have completed a 25 000 square meters fully exposed car park in Maputo, last year, as well as various other projects. Alchimicas’ HYPERDESMO®-HAA is a unique single component polyurethane liquid membrane, based on the successful combination of Hyperdesmo and Accelerator 3000 which throughout the years has provided applicators with a solution for a fast curing, bubble free thick layer membrane. The company’s  commitment to R&D and investment plus their efforts to continuously upgrade their Chemical processing plant has allowed them to formulate a Hyperdesmo® with the Accelerator 3000 incorporated in a blocked fashion, that upon contact with humidity is released and self- accelerates the curing of the material in a similar manner as the Accelerator 3000. Due to its unique formulation, it cures rapidly to form a completely defect free membrane with excellent mechanical and elastomeric properties. This product is ideal for use during the winter months or in climates with relatively low humidity. Lola Verlaque of Alchimica building chemicals, tells waterproofing customers to curb the tendency of choosing the cheapest products and instead go for a long term solution that may cost a few dollars more initially but have no maintenance costs down the line like the Hyperdesmo system which is a 10 year maintenance free guarantee. 