Hira Group has excelled in manufacturing products for the Building and Construction Industry since 1980. Today the Hira Group, is a trailblazer and a pioneer, manufacturing
building products for various industrial segments across the globe such as HVAC, MEP,
Civil Construction, Infrastructure, Aluminium, Glass, Marine, commercial, residential and industrial projects. Hira Group has successfully expanded activities in trading and customer
base in GCC, India, Southeast Asia, Australia and Africa. The objective is to excel in order to remain committed to world-class quality and manufacturing. As part of their vision, Hira Industries aim’s to be a Global Leader in niche products in building product industry. They also strive to be the Market Leaders in the segments and the regions they choose to compete in. Spread over a range of brands, Hira Industries is constantly providing customers with the
most innovative and flexible solutions. Their brands include Aerofoam, Diamond Tapes,
Rubtech, Diamond Walraven and Maico. Aerofoam ® XLPE, NBR and AeroSound Acoustic products are highly efficient closed cell
foams, with multiple applications and purposes. These products have been used in various
projects and comply with the most important standards required by the thermal insulation
industry. Aeroduct division of Hira Industries, specializes in the manufacture of ducting accessories.
The range of Aeroduct products comprise of Flexible Duct Connectors, Insulation Fasteners,
Flexible Ducts and Damper Accessories that meet all relevant international testing standards. The Diamond Adhesive Tapes division has been a dominant player in the manufacturing of
specialty tapes for industrial and consumer sectors. The product range is classified into
Aluminium and glass industry, HVAC industry, Gasket and foam and the consumer industry. The range within Rubtech’s division of Hira Industries, cater to the markets demand for
moulded and extruded rubber products. At Hira Industries, their mission is to be a full-line
designer, producer, and supplier of all your customized rubber requirements. Diamond Walraven division aim to serve with their huge line of pipe support products and
services of the highest quality. Maico’s division of Hira Industries provides innovative technology, high quality and
excellent design for air distribution systems. Product range comprises of car park ventilation, AMCA certified range, air handling unit, ecology unit, smoke ventilator, Dynair industrial fans range and Elicent domestic fans range. All products are fully customization in terms of lamination, coating and conversion according to the customers needs. The products comply with the most important standards required by the insulation industry. Their distribution network is spread across Nairobi-Kenya, South Africa and Morocco. Manufacturing units are established in Dubai and they have their corporate headquarters in Dubai Investments Park 2, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.