Larsen & Toubro (L&T), the leading technology, engineering, construction, and manufacturing and financial services company has handed over Phase 1 of a Light Rail System (Metro Express) to the government of Mauritius. Designed and constructed by L&T, the 13km Integrated Light Rail-based Urban Transit System will initially operate between Port Louis, the country’s capital city, and Rose Hill. Also Read: L&T, partnering with Africa to build a brighter tomorrow Speaking during the inauguration of the project in the presence of the Prime Minister of Mauritius and his counterpart from India, the CEO & Managing Director of L&T Mr. S.N. Subrahmanyan said that the Mauritius Metro Express is the fastest executed transit system by the company, from a green field to the present status in barely two years’ time. “‘Scale and Speed’ have been the hallmarks of L&T projects and our approach has been to provide a modern and unique solution by implementing cost-effective construction methods to enhance speed of execution with minimum disturbance to the people.” “This project also marks a new high in Indi-Mauritian relations that will definitely bring huge economic advantages and offer opportunities in engineering and technical skill development for the African island nation,” he added. Subsidized by the Government of India, the entire Mauritius Metro Express project covers approximately 26-km and connects Curepipe to Immigration Square in Port Louis with 19 stations, 2 of which will be state-of-the-art elevated stations. The system will also be linked to three major bus interchanges in order to enable a multi modal urban transit solution. The scope of the project entails construction of viaducts & bridges, track works (with substantial ballast less tracks including plinth, embedded and grass tracks), and integration with road traffic through advanced signaling systems, procurement of rolling stock from world majors in LRT (Light Rail Transit) and construction of depots along with maintenance equipment. Upon completion, the Mauritius Metro will feature world-class rolling stock, multiple track forms for best-in-class urban design to lessen noise and vibration, energy-efficient traction power supply systems, advanced signaling systems, a state-of-the art Operation Control Centre, simulators for rapid driver training and passenger-friendly electronic ticketing and information systems. 