The government of zimbabwe has assigned five contractors to undertake construction works on the US$150m Beitbridge-Harare-Chirundu highway. The companies include Tensor Systems, Masimba Construction, Fossil Contractors, Exodus Company and Bitumen World where each of the company has been allocated 20-kilometre stretches, with room for expansion to 100km depending on their performance. Also read:Construction of Polokwane ring road in South Africa to resume this month The first section of the road will cover Mashonaland East Province where Tensor Systems will undertake the rehabilitation works while Masimba Construction will be responsible for road works on the section covering the Midlands Province. According to the Minister of Transport and Infrastructural Development Joel Biggie Matiza, two contractors have been assigned to work on the Masvingo Province section. Fossil Contractors is responsible for the Masvingo-Chatsworth stretch while Exodus Company will be constructing roads in Masvingo-Maringire areas. Construction works for the Beitbridge-Harare-Chirundu highway will consist of phased dualisation, rehabilitation and widening of the existing road from the current 7m width to Southern Africa Transport and Communications Commission (SATTC) standard of 12.5m width, and adding climbing lanes where necessary. The construction of the highway is expected to improve the quality of the road, which has outlived its lifespan of 20 years by almost 35 years. The highway will provide passage from South Africa to countries like Zambia, Tanzania and DRC, and is one of the busiest in the country and region. Zimbabwean roads are managed, maintained and operated by the Zimbabwe National Road Administration (ZINARA). There are 88,100km of classiﬁed roads in Zimbabwe and 17,400km of which are paved. The density of roads in the country is about 0.23km per square km which is high compared to many developing countries; it is comparable to that of the high income, non-OECD countries and lower middle-income countries. In addition to that, only OECD countries have a substantially higher road density than Zimbabwe. 