Dubai, and emirate in the United Arab Emirates best known for ultramodern architecture in the construction industry, plans to construct world’s first floating smart police station. The floating smart police station will be built by the government/Dubai police in collaboration with Kleindienst Group, a Dubai Real Estate Agent and Property Developer, which developed the ‘Heart of Europe’ in the country. The project (The floating smart police station) is expected to open to the public in the sea, off Dubai’s World Islands by next year. Also Read: Construction of world’s first smart mini city in Las Vegas, USA, to begin this December The project aims to conveniently help sea users and World Island residents enjoy key police services any time, any day without human intervention. Speaking during the commissioning of the project, Brigadier Khalif Al Razooqi, the director of Artificial Intelligence Department in the Dubai Police said that the modern floating station will operate 24 hours, seven days a week and offer 27 key services, including reporting of crimes, traffic incidents and community services. “In addition, it will also provide 33 fully automated sub-services in six different languages. Our aim with this project is to provide police services for everybody and it’s part of the police strategy to provide smart services in Dubai,” Al Razooqi added. The floating smart station will be the fourth SPS station in Dubai after City Walk, following other drive thru and walk in versions located around the emirate according to Brigadier Razooqi. The very first smart police station in Dubai and the entire world was opened back in September 2017 at Tilal Al Ghaf. Major General Abdullah Khalifa Al Marri, Commander-in-Chief of Dubai Police said that the SPS’s have been a success and affirmed the keenness of the Dubai Police Headquarters to advance toward generalizing the experience of the Smart Police Station. The country plans to provide complete virtual access to police services by 2030.