The government of Rwanda is set to receive US $20m loan from OPEP Fund for International Development (OFID) to finance Phase 2 of the Rwanda Sustainable Water Supply and Sanitation Programme. The program supports infrastructure investments as well as institutional capacity development. The programme involves multiple water supply and sanitation sub-projects or interventions to be implemented in the City of Kigali and in the satellite cities of Rubavu, Rusizi, Nyagatare, Muhanga, Huye, Musanze and Karongi. The loan was signed by Claudine Uwera, Rwandan Minister of State for Economic Planning and Abdulhamid Alkhalifa, the Managing Director of OFID. In Kigali, the project involves installing 142km of main distribution pipes, 195km of distribution network, and rehabilitation of 175km of distribution network. There will also be construction of 33 tanks with a total capacity of 48,150m3 on 11 different sites. Construction and installation of 3 pumping station will be developed in Gasanze, Kanyinya and Bweramvura. Also Read:Somalia signs US $28.8m deal for road and water supply projects The programme is also expected to extend the drinking water transport and distribution network by 77km and rehabilitate over 133km in Muhanga District. Storage tanks with a capacity of 3,300m3 will be built, including 1,900m3 in Mbare, 1,000m3 in Mubuga and 400m3 in Samuduha. The proposed tanks will be of the semi-underground circular type, built in reinforced concrete. In the Musanze district of northern Rwanda, the government will rehabilitate, upgrade and extend the water supply network of the secondary city of Musanze, with the construction of 46.8km and rehabilitation of 75km, as well as the construction of two new tanks of 2,000m3 each in Gashingiro and Nyamagumba. It is projected that the projects will facilitate 7,600 connections and sanitation blocks in 10 schools, benefiting 1.5 million people. Rwanda’s Sustainable Water Supply and Sanitation Programme is also supported by the African Development Bank (AfDB).