Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH), the largest referral, teaching and research hospital in Kenya, is set to construct a new 300-bed private hospital in Nairobi, the capital city of Kenya. In a statement, KNH noted that the venture will be undertaken on a public-private partnership basis and that the hospital board has already called for bids before holding an investor conference on 30th of this month. This will be the first healthcare project executed under a public-private partnership in Kenya, where investors will build and own the facility for 30 years to recover their costs and make a profit before transferring it to the State. Also Read: Construction of US $5m Mother and child facility in Kapsabet, Kenya begins The plan for this project was conceived back in 2012 but gained momentum last year, when KNH contracted a consortium from Ernst & Young Kenya, India and UK to conduct a feasibility study on the technical configuration, affordability and commercial viability of the project. The project will sit on five acres piece of land and will have access routes to Mbagathi and Hospital roads. It will consist of a minimum of 300-bed main hospital, a 40-bed step-down (general bed) facility, a doctor’s plaza, and multi-storey parking with the capacity to house about 500 cars. Evanson Kamuri, KNH acting CEO said that they have a reference design of a nine-storey facility, but investors can as well make independent designs. The tender will be awarded in September 2021, with construction expected to begin straightaway. The proposed KNH Private hospital is expected to replace KPCC (Kenyatta Prime Care Centre) , allowing the general hospital to expand its public wards to accommodate additional public patients. It is also projected to be a specialized center of excellence to manage life-threatening chronic ‘lifestyle’ diseases. Services to be offered will include general practice, internal medicine, transplants, emergency medical services, obstetrics and gynecology, and psychiatry. Additionally, the facility will offer research and medical training to colleges affiliated to KNH.