Metco Limited is one of the leading manufacturers of quality products fabricated from mild steel, stainless steel and aluminium. Established in 1975, Metco Limited has grown from its humble beginnings and is now renowned for offering the market innovative, high quality products at competitive rates and top customer service within the industry in Kenya. They manufacture a large number of standard products ranging from Office Furniture, Supermarket Shelving to Warehouse Racking and Bakery equipment. Metco manufactures a range of desks from modular operator workstations to executive metal office furniture, with a wide range of styles, finishes and shapes to suit every budget and office environment. Their office seating ranges include operator chairs, ergonomic and leather executive chairs to match their office furniture ranges. They stock and manufacture reception seating, banqueting seating and multipurpose chairs. Storage systems include shelving and racking, filing cabinets, cupboards and lockers for all office needs. They also provide high-density mobile storage units and storage wall systems for offices and meeting rooms. Their exclusive range of bake quip catering equipment range from bread pans to bakery trolleys.They also offer a complete bespoke design service. With their state of the art equipment, they can take your initial requirements and create individual solutions to meet the customer’s needs. They offer a complete service from initial design to shop fit out. Their experienced engineers will set-up an initial appointment with you to review you requirement, complete measurements, carry out design and planning to maximize the use of your space and project manage the installation and shop fit-out. Nowadays,versatile home office furniture and high-end furnishings are the segments demonstrating a steady increase in consumer demand. The luxury vertical will be expected to grow even higher, a line, furniture companies considering product expansion should explore. To offer value, you should know and understand the community in which you set up your store. You also have to understand the needs, desires, and aspirations of those who live in the area. Metco develops a long term relationships with all their customers by delivering quality workmanship, on time at a competitive cost. Customer satisfaction is their top priority and they take great pride in their work and reputation which they have successfully built up and maintained over the years. Today Metco operates from two factories in Kenya with a highly skilled workforce of more than 80 staff members. With over 40 years of in-depth expertise and knowledge of the Kenyan manufacturing sector, Metco continues to invest in the latest technologies and machinery and expand its extensive product portfolio in keeping with modern trends. Their mission is to be the experts in the metal fabrication industry by transforming workspaces through tailor-made solutions. Metco primarily transacts with B2B customers and its extensive product range is available directly from the factory or via leading furniture stores in Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Thika, Kericho. Metco quality products are used by leading businesses and government organisations in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Somalia, South Sudan and Rwanda. No matter what your project involves, with their fresh, flexible approach and forward thinking they can usually find a way to help you achieve your fabrication requirements and look forward to working with you. Their mission is to be the supplier of choice through continuously improving and manufacturing quality products at competitive prices by making use of environmentally efficient technologies. Metco strives for excellent customer service and satisfaction. They encourage continuous learning for their staff to promote growth in operational expertise, for the benefit of the customers, shareholders and staff.