Designing a modern family home is no easy task, especially when you don’t know where to start. It does require patience, effort, and a lot of decision-making. Therefore, it makes sense you’d want to get as much information as possible and learn all there is to know about modern home design. Whether you’re unsure about what modern design style entails or you’re questioning how it will blend with your interiors, we’re here to answer any questions you might have when it comes to designing a family home. To help get you started, we suggest you take a look at these five key considerations for choosing a modern family home design. When it comes to choosing a floor plan, it’s important that the rooms are located in a logical way. On one hand, we have traditional homes that have somewhat disorganized room layouts and their shape tends to be irregular. What’s more, in traditional homes, it’s not uncommon to have a couple of rooms logically connected and then have the rest of them just filling the unused gaps in the floor plan. What you get as a result is a powder room located in an awkward position instead of being connected with a bedroom or a bathroom. On the other hand, modern-day home designers have a more organized, intentional approach to floor plans. Modern homes tend to be more symmetrical and the rooms are connected in a way that is logical and fits the needs of modern families. Modern homes tend to be visually connected and most of the times it’s because of the color scheme that is repeated in each section of the living space. Clean, open spaces call for a neutral color palette, and blacks, whites, and grays seem to be dominant colors in contemporary homes. The lighter hues are often used to provide a backdrop for bolder, accent colors, brightening the space and making it seem more spacious. On the other hand, darker tones are used to ground the room and anchor different design elements, and they’re perfect for adding depth to the living space and providing attractive contrast and unique visual interest. Other than the paint, a cohesive look can also be achieved by using the same type of flooring throughout the house. It will make your living space more coherent and create a visual flow, tying all the rooms into a cohesive whole. Another feature that often graces contemporary spaces, streamlined, minimalist furnishings are a great way to make your home seem well-thought-out. Simple in design, the sleek lines of elegant leather lounge suites will make the entire room feel more luxurious, while lacquered wooden tables and brushed metal accessories will further elevate its look and make your home look like something out of a magazine. To neutralize the cold look of minimalist spaces and add a touch of warmth, you can implement accessories in warmer colors and use textiles to make your living space cozier. A shaggy rug, sheepskin throw, velvet curtains, and faux fur pillows are perfect for bringing a dose of comfort into contemporary, minimalist interiors. However, don’t go overboard and add just those decor pieces that are essential for wrapping up the room’s design. Storage is an essential component of any modern space, and it’s even more important when it comes to designing a family home. Contemporary spaces steer clear of clutter, and even the decorations are used sparingly. Keep most of the stuff out of sight, and only display those items that have sentimental value or otherwise add to the room’s design. To make sure your bathroom looks clean and spacious, use vanity cabinets to store away your toiletries and cleaning products, displaying only essential items such as towels and soaps. Floor to ceiling built-ins are perfect for living rooms, bedrooms, and hallways, while modern casework will keep your kitchen chic, sleek, and clutter-free. You could also implement free-standing storage or check out some modular storage options if you like to change things up often. As long as you choose pieces with a simple design and neutral color palette, you can’t go wrong. Minimizing energy usage is one of the prominent characteristics of modern home designs. Although switching to low-energy LED lighting is a step towards reducing your monthly utilities, many homeowners are looking for other ways to make their homes energy-efficient. Many of them see green household appliances as a great alternative to standard, conventional devices, with green appliances such as washing machines cutting the water and energy consumption by up to 40%. Nowadays, homeowners can find eco-friendly heating and cooling equipment, stoves, heaters, and refrigerators that will contribute to their monthly savings, resulting in free income they can spend on other necessities. Even though there are a lot of things to consider, designing a modern family home is nevertheless an exciting process. By following certain guidelines and relying on the aforementioned tips, you’re sure to create a space that will suit the needs of your family, and potentially increase your home value.