Edgepoint Company Ltd started as a construction company majoring in Civil Works in 2011, around 2017 they were contracted by Tanzania Roads Authority (TANROADS) for a job that had 70% civil works and 30% road marking works, it was from this job that the company exposed to road marking and signage and saw the opportunity and gap in the market. Through the struggles of getting the right sub-contractor for the job, they realized there was a lack of enough and quality suppliers in the market. After struggling to complete that project, they knew they had to address the gap and hence the journey to majoring in road marking and furnishings began. The firm has since acquired vast road marking machines (Power Master 180), Self-propelled machines, hand push applicators, Borum screed boxes etc. In Traffic signs manufacturing, Edgepoint has set up a plant in Dar es Salaam that manufacture 3M Engineering Grade traffic signs [Road Signs, Information Signs, and Guidance Signs etc.].  Besides, they have a work shop for assembling and Installation of solar street lights. Collectively, They have the capacity to execute 7km of road marking works per day, produce 40 traffic signs per day and install 20 street lights a day. Edgepoint has executed over 16 Road marking projects to date, produced 1,000+ traffic signs and installed 300 street lights.  The company has just been awarded 4 major contracts in Tanzania, where they will be providing road marking services to all major cities; Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Dodoma and Coast for the next 12 months as well as produce and install over 600 traffic signs. “The biggest challenges before 2018/2019 was delayed payments from the biggest client (the government). Fortunately for us we came into the business at the right time, the current government under Hon. John Pombe Magufuli made significant amendments to the government systems which saw a turnaround of less than 2 weeks in processing payments to contractors! With the current government we have seen significant rise in accountability in supervision and contract management. Fairness is getting a contract with the government has also risen significantly allowing competitive contractors get jobs on merit than otherwise. Minor challenges include availability of skilled labour for the industry, but we expected this and have been patient with training potential operators which has worked for us so far. It gets a little expensive since the training sometimes involves sending our staff to India/ China, but it has been worth it,” explains Lilian Makoi, the Director of Strategy at Egepoint. The ability to execute big to small road safety projects in high quality and timely manner set them apart from other competitors. They are the only road marking and furnishing company in the region with fully equipped high-tech machines, equipment and fleet to execute all types of road safety projects.  Altogether, the company has a highly experienced and skilled team to ensure professionalism, great quality and timely delivery of goods and services. These ensure clients are satisfied and happy even after past defect liability period. All their materials are certified by local quality control agencies (i.e. Tanzania Bureau of Standards); they are well documented and have all paperwork client will require for official vetting before service provision. What advice could you give a potential customer? “We have seen a high African governments spending more if infrastructure to facilitate trade, agriculture and industrialization within the country which is a great move for Africa as a region to grow economically. While this lies as a great opportunity for contractors to grow and positively impact the economy, we have seen the alliance of African governments with Asian nations who not only enables Africa to have quality and long lasting roads constructed, they also have more friendlier payment terms for the government agencies. It is our duty as African entrepreneurs to find our place within this growth and be part of the service (supplier) providers to benefit the economy and also work with these foreign companies to learn from them and grow,” she added. 