Looking at warehousing and Distribution Centers where business falls under, Africa is undergoing through a fundamental transformation from the traditional (Gowdown) to Grade A Modern warehouse facilities. The following are top shelving and racking companies Barpro Storage is South Africa’s most trusted mobile racking and storage specialist, with over 20 years’ experience in ambient and cold storage applications in Sub-Saharan Africa, Australia and Mauritius. Their Cape Town and Johannesburg branches service all areas, offering mobile and fixed storage system design, supply, installation, maintenance and repairs. We also repair non-STORAX mobile systems, and consult on all storage-related issues. The company specializes in mobile racking systems that have the following unique advantages: Barpro’s fully-equipped Cape Town workshop can manufacture and dispatch top quality mechanical spares in record-breaking time. Specialist parts are imported from international suppliers and stocked at affordable rates. When it comes to designing a new store, the company advises one increase the height in preference to increasing the footprint. Akdenizrack looks at utilizing the space by adding a racking system can double and sometimes even triple the amount of materials you’re able to handle in your warehouse, and adding forklifts to a basic warehousing operation usually results in a leap in efficiency. Akdenizrack’s unique aspect of their shelving and racking systems is that they a production area of 17,000m2 which is producing racking System according to approved international standards i.e. TS EN ISO15512. The company use the most advanced techniques in the manufacturing of their products. For maximum guarantee their their systems Akdenizrack do statistical calculation on the metal structures and is specifically tailored to fit the specific need. The company recommends a potential customer to understand the most appropriate rack system for the stock/ Inventory they are holding at the warehouse before choosing any system.  SSC has been in the second hand shelving and racking industry for over 30 years offering their services to both small and large companies. They install, repair and even relocate racking from one place to another. SSC takes pride in offering decades of quality services in new and second hand shelving and racking manufacturing industry. Their clients benefit from low-priced shelving & racking, convenient & faster delivery as well as service excellence in the greater Gauteng (Johannesburg & Pretoria) and South Africa at large. One of the unique aspects the company boasts of is having their second hand shelving load tested, checked, refurbished before it leaves their workshop.  Universal Storage Systems, is a leading manufacturer of industrial racking and shelving, markets a range of warehousing and storage products, and systems. The company, through the use of its own research, technology and highly trained engineers, plus access through international relationships, has a reputation for being able to find solutions to most storage challenges. Serving the Republic through a network of company branches and distributors, Universal Storage Systems has developed a reputation for excellence in South Africa. Universal Storage Systems has not only recognized the increased expectations placed by its client’s markets onto the shelving and racking industry, but has focused its Engineering and Quality Departments on developing new and improved technical solutions which meet and exceed these demands. The company advises clients to deal with the manufacturer directly, as you will then have all the design, manufacturing and logistical backup that will be needed. Also ensuring that you are able to maintain the system you have, should MHE damage the system or you need to add-on or change the configuration. Certification is now paramount as this has a direct influence with regards insurance, health and safety, which is standard with manufacturer supplied and installed systems.  LinkMisr International is a leading Industrial company specialized in the manufacturing of Shelving and Racking systems serving the Egyptian, and the International Markets for over 25 years and since 1993. LinkMisr International caters for complete solutions from presales consultancy, design, supply, installation, and after sales services managed by a highly qualified, versatile, creative and professional team locally and backed by our Joint Venture partners. Their product ranges include shelving systems for diverse applications to meet different customer’s requirements including:light load shelves, medium load shelves, and heavy load racks which is quite complementary with your product range. These are manufactured under license of Link51 (UK) and Lista AG (Switzerland). Link51 is a shareholder in the Joint-Venture Link Misr International. The company has expert engineering team for the design & verification of steel storage rack using modern engineering powerful tools for design and in-home test lab for testing components & connections. “Try to use the vertical space before investing in new buildings and new distribution centers. This will mean better utilization of cubic meters and will reduce overall cost of storage per units. Calculate the amount of space needed to store a single pallet and hence calculate the overall highest number of pallet positions you can store in the same area and volume,” Mohamed Elhusseiny Export Development Manager suggests.  Ese Manufacturing is a proudly South African shelving and racking company established in 1998.  It is owned by Mr Stanley Aucamp and supported by a professional team all working to a common goal and that is to provide the trade and retail industry racking, gondolas and bolt on shelves at the best price with the best service possible. Through the years they have added more products like baskets lockers, display units and counters. All their bolt and nut shelving, gondolas, racking systems are made from the best material available in South Africa. 