As part of their vision of 24 hours of sun – a future in which 100% of the world’s energy needs are covered by renewable sources – Fronius already offers a number of solutions for the energy revolution. Now Fronius is launching their new products Fronius GEN24 Plus and Fronius Tauro. With the Fronius Primo GEN24 Plus and Fronius Symo GEN24 Plus hybrid inverter, the solar energy specialist is now offering storage solutions for the single-phase and three-phase segment. The single-phase Primo GEN24 Plus is available in power categories ranging from 3kW to 6kW and the three-phase Symo GEN24 is available in power categories ranging from 6kW to 10kW. They provide all the benefits of the SnapINverter concept and boast additional features, such as being incredibly quick to commission using an app and offering the fastest service plan on the market. Moreover, the individual emergency power variants ensure a very high degree of supply reliability at home. The integrated PV Point, provides a basic emergency power supply, even without an energy storage system. This enables users to charge their phone or laptop, ensuring that they remain contactable and up-to-date with the latest information, even during longer power outages. If the inverter is combined with a battery, it can provide a full back-up system that can supply the whole household with electricity. The Primo GEN24 Plus was awarded the Plus X Award 2019 in the categories:High Quality, Ease of Use, Functionality and Ecology. Another highlightis the Fronius Tauro. The robust project inverter was especially designed for use in unsheltered outdoor locations (IP 65), and is perfectly suited to large-scale commercial systems. Available in 50 and 100 kW power categories, the Tauro provides flexible system planning and a robust design that ensures the highest possible yields are achieved, even under extreme environmental conditions such as hot, cold or dusty environments. By using the Fronius Tauro, a system can be built cost-effectively, while maximizing yields at the same time. Due to its unique AC Daisy Chaining option, Tauro can guarantee significant savings in the cost of cabling and boxes.In developing the Fronius Tauro, special attention was paid to the requirement that servicing should be carried out by one person only. The new FroniusTauroandGEN24 Plus inverters complete the Fronius product range, enabling Fronius to offer their customers the best possible support for all kinds of challenges. Africa has huge opportunities and huge challenges for solar energy systems. Therefore, Fronius is represented by strong sales partners in Africa. These partners, installers and other customers receive the best support by Fronius technical sales advisors who are based in the region. Until now, Fronius consists of 3 technical sales advisors located in Johannesburg (supporting the Southern African region), Lagos (supporting the Western African region) and Nairobi (supporting the Eastern African region).But, Fronius is still growing and therefore they are recruiting another technical sales advisor for the Western African region. Fronius support does not end with the Installation of the PV System. We provide the best support possible, also after sales. Our regional Network-Partners see the challenges, African installers face on a day-to-day basis. Therefore,Installation must be easy and straightforward and quick servicing is a must, particularly in regions that involve great distances. In Fronius, you can rely on a technology partner with more than 25 years of experience.We develop leading technologies for small self-consumption systems and large commercial systems alike. Our Vision of 24 hours of sun is what drives us: We believe in a future where we are able to cover 100% of our global energy requirements with renewable resources.