Stainless Steel Masters Ltd is a privately owned Kenyan company providing a complete solution in the hospitality industry by offering design, custom fabrication, supply, installation and commissioning of commercial kitchens, cold rooms and freezer rooms as well as air conditioning services. Stainless Steel Masters Limited has its production house and a showroom along Jogoo Road in Nairobi and a second showroom is located at Highway Mall, Mombasa Road, Nairobi Kenya The equipment that they can’t produce locally they import from Italy, turkey and Germany. Their major clientele cuts across the Hospitality Industry. These include hotels, restaurants, coffee shops,butcheries, learning institutions, hospitals among others. Stainless Steel Masters Ltd provide various products and services in relation to their broad and diverse clientele. They include: Stainless Steel Fabricated Equipment these products include combined cooking islands, tables, sinks, 4 tier racks among others. Food Processing Equipment these products cut across all their clients as they include Bone saw, meat slicer and manual meat grinder for the butcheries, Bread Slicer, juice extractor and knead press for hotels among other products. Commercial Refrigeration Equipment these products include a commercial refrigerators, cold rooms, freezer rooms, ice makers among others. Stainless Steel Masters has undertaken turn-key projects that start from Designing, Developing, Implementing, Testing and Commissioning. Some of the major projects that SSMLhas participated in include the Enashipai Lodgein Naivasha, DedanKimathi University which involved Supply and Fixing of the machines and Fairmount Hotel in Mount Kenya. Stainless Steel Masters manufacture heavy duty and light duty equipment that are tailor made locally to meet the customers’ individual requirements and priced competitively to meet most budgets. “Every product comes to be because we believe in customers ever changing needs and preferences,” she added. The progressive product development, test, evaluation and craftsmanship ensure the equipment meets the customers ever changing needs and also meets the current food hygiene, health and safety regulations. The quality and finish of their products is of great quality especially those produced locally. This attitude has continued to make the company a market leader in their specialties. With the intent to be efficient and keeping their customers happy and content Stainless Steel Masters also give their customers the luxury of ordering their products online which allows the customer to continue with their normal activities as they wait for delivery and installation of the products.  