Construction of the US $135m Obetsebi-Lamptey interchange road in Ghana has begun after the country’s President, Nana Akufo-Addo broke ground for the commencement of works. The project is part of a number of actions being undertaken by the Government to improve urban mobility within the western parts of Accra. The project involves construction of a three-tier interchange at the Obetsebi-Lamptey Circle. According to the president, the ground level will have a re-modelled roundabout, whilst the second tier will be an east to west flyover linking the Graphic Road to the Kaneshie-Mallam road. The third tier will be a north-south flyover on the Ring Road West, which will link the Ring Road from the Royal Chapel Church to the Central Mosque at AbosseyOkai. The road project will be implemented in two phases; Phase 1 will consist of the construction of the east-west flyover and other related works, and phase 2 will involve the construction of the third-tier flyover on the Ring Road West. Also Read:Ghana commence reconstruction of Kwabeng-Abomosu Road The president further added that critical drainage structures that go through the roundabout will be upgraded under this project to reduce the incidence of flooding at the roundabout. The Interchange will be undertaken by M/S Queiroz Galvao-UK International as a design and build contract. The project funds were made possible by Export Credit Facilities from the United Kingdom and Spain. Upon completion, the project is expected to address the congestion being faced by commuters at the Obetsebi-Lamptey roundabout, which is recording a peak hour traffic volume of approximately 8,000 vehicles per hour, with a Level of Service (LOS) of F at peak periods and improve mobility on the Ring Road corridor. “The Interchange will improve mobility on the western parts of the Ring Road., and help improve travel times to Korle Bu Teaching Hospital, and improve access to AbosseyOkai spare parts area and to businesses along the Graphic Road and the Kaneshie-Mallam Highway,” said His Excellency Akufo-Addo.