Nigeria has commenced rehabilitation works on roads in Lagos State. This is after Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu declared a state of emergency on the roads and ordered massive repair work on critical highways across the state. The governor confirmed the commencement and said that contractors deployed by the government towards the project include; Julius Berger, Hitech, Arab Contractors, Metropolitan Construction, Slavabogu Construction, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), Rajaf Foundation Construction, and RCF Nigeria Ltd. He further explained that the move is aimed at highways considered critical to the reduction of traffic congestion in the state. Rehabilitation works begun with palliative work on the selected roads, which are both on the Island and mainland divisions of the state. Also Read:Zimbabwe assigns five contractors for construction of Beitbridge-Harare-Chirundu highway Nigeria’s annual traffic fatality rate was reported as 5,000 in 2008. A major contributor to this statistic is the poor condition of the roads. The country has 120,546-mile network of roads, the quality of which is generally crumbling because they are poorly maintained. Heavy travel on major roads accelerates the wear, vehicle accidents are very common, and the fatality rate is high. Potholes are numerous, leading drivers to swerve around them, sometimes putting themselves and those in other vehicles at risk. There are frequent delays when vehicles have to slow down. Lagos, the capital city, is notorious for its slow traffic. Some roads have deteriorated so badly they are impassable. Some of the critical highways and roads to be constructed to include Ojota stretch of the Ikorodu Road and Motorways-Kudirat Abiola Way. Others are Apongbon Highway, Babs Animashaun Road, Agric/Ishawo Road and Ijede Road in Ikorodu, and Lekki-Epe Expressway from Abraham Adesanya to Eleko Junction. There will also be massive re-construction work on a network of roads in Ikoyi, Ikeja GRA and Victoria Island. Mr Sanwo-Olu said the Lagos State Public Works Corporation (LSPWC) would be carrying out repairs of 116 inner roads across the state. This, according to him, would be in addition to over 200 roads already rehabilitated by the corporation in the last three months. “Officials of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) would be working round the clock to control traffic in the areas where the construction would take place,” said Mr Sanwo-Olu.  