Veolia Water Solutions & Technologies SA (Pty) Limited (“Veolia”) is a total solutions water and wastewater treatment company supplying complete turnkey plants for municipal, food and beverage, power, chemical, mining and pharmaceutical industries.  Areas of expertise include biological, co generation, desalination, evaporation, crystallization, drying, filtration, gas cleaning as well as other related technologies. Veolia has the capability to execute large projects with proven track records in Southern Africa and Africa as a whole. It is the only company in South Africa to offer a full range of activities, from turnkey contracting for small and large projects to specialised services and speciality chemicals for the industrial and municipal markets. Veolia specialises in the design, construction, commissioning and operation of water and wastewater treatment plants and offers a full range of various types of operational contracts, including technical assistance. With its head office, chemical production and laboratory facilities in Johannesburg, Veolia has regional offices in Durban and Paarl and international offices in Botswana and Namibia. Part of the global Water Solutions and Technologies group, Veolia is well poised to draw on the group’s success, expertise and research and development capabilities. On26 July 2017, Veolia officially unveiled its new strategic partnership with Ceracure (Pty) Ltd. This landmark shareholding agreement strengthens the Company’s compliance with new Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment regulations as a high level contributor, and demonstrates its continued commitment to local empowerment and transformation. Veolia’s shareholding arrangement with Ceracure represents an important pillar of the Company’s new vision that is enhancing the water solutions specialist’s delivery of highly efficient, low-footprint water treatment technologies in South Africa and Africa. Alongside the BBBEE deal are a range of recent organisational and technological innovations that have streamlined the Company’s manufacturing, distribution and service networks across the region. Veolia South Africa is now positioned as a key technology and manufacturing hub for Veolia’s new range of standard engineered products and systems as well the Company’s range of Hydrex™ specialty chemicals. Veolia is a subsidiary member of the Veolia Group, the world leader in optimized resource management and delivery of full range of solutions to design, build, maintain and rehabilitate facilities and water treatment systems to meet customer’s current and future needs. With five specialist business units, Design and Build Projects, Engineered Systems, Services and Consumables, Operations, and Chemicals, Veolia  provides a wide range of services from designing, building and commissioning plants to offering maintenance contracts, chemical supply, refurbishments and outsourcing. The scope of Veolia water treatment services include wastewater treatment plants, potable water plants, and desalination projects using processes such as reverse osmosis, clarification, sand filtration, de-mineralisation, cation, anion and mixed bed polishing, ion exchange, crystallisation and evaporation.