The government of Nigeria has commenced construction of cargo airport project in Etikti State. This is after the State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi laid the foundation for the project. Speaking during the groundbreaking ceremony, the governor said that the project aims at boosting the state’s agricultural, tourism and educational endowment. “An airport project has been globally recognized as a catalyst for growth and development, and one in Ekiti will not be an exemption, since it will be fashioned to play dual roles in air transportation,” said Dr Kayode Fayemi. “The federal government will support everything about this project, particularly the cargo aspect of it because the good atmospheric condition of Ekiti and the lurching vegetation and good soil will help to produce farm products that can be exported within and outside the country,” he added. Also Read:Angola reopens Joaquim Kapango Airport after rehabilitation The proposed airport is set to serve the city of Ado-Ekiti in Ekiti State. It was initially rejected by the Nigerian Government, citing the project would conflict with plans to upgrade four airports to international standards. However, In 2015, Ekiti State Governor Ayodele Fayose revisited the project, announcing plans to establish an airport for the state and commissioned the Lands and Housing Directorate to start a survey for an appropriate site. The project covers about 4,000 acres of land. According to Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, upon completion it will help to transport large number of cash crops from the proposed special Agriculture Processing zone (SAPZ) to different destination and secure early-to –market advantage for the state’s comprehensive agricultural and industrial development plans. “The transportation network is a key driver of economic growth, Ekiti is bound to witness rapid economic growth, owing to the construction of the airport and the Lagos-Kano Rail line which will pass through the state too,” said the Minister. The airport development is being supported by the Federal Government, African Development Bank (AfDB) and Africa Export Import Bank and is expected to be be fully operational in the next 24 months.  