Triple S Solutions is a value-added distributor of state-of-the-art technology-based solution. Their partnerships with global leading brands such as UTC, HID, IDEMIA, SPICA, FARGO, Impro among others guarantee the best quality solutions for all security needs. Triple S Solutions offers the best security solutions in terms of access control readers, cards and management systems. HID Global and Impro Access control solutions are the best when it comes to: Providing a safe environment for employees, visitors and contractors, protect people, facilities, networks and assets; identify who is in the building and manage their level of access, control access to highly secure areas and manage access to commercial fleet fueling stations. CCTV Cameras are a key security component which provides real-time view of what is happening at multiple locations and helps deter and detect unwarranted activities. They have partnered with TruVision® line which brings the benefits of digital security monitoring to commercial applications. Easy to install and operate, TruVision cameras, recorders, monitors and interfaces deliver practical and reliable video surveillance, even in the most challenging environments. Physical intrusion detection systems help safeguard your premises and warn of any impending dangers. Through UTC Fire and Security, they guarantee solutions and services that detect, control and inform to provide residences and businesses peace of mind, efficiency and convenience. The company has partnered with UTC Fire and Security to also provide a comprehensive range of fire control panels and sensors that cover all applications from residential to high-end commercial and industrial enterprises It’s time to move from the traditional mode of registering visitors. No more handwritten paper logs. By embracing the automated visitor management systems, the lobby gets a more professional appearance. The company enhances security and meets compliance mandates for the collection and auditing of visitor data. For the workplace requirements, they have the most reliable biometric solutions to control the access to offices, server rooms and other secure areas. These include: the IdemiaTouchless, Fingerprint and Facial recognition terminals. Their innovative solutions are designed to be modular, and enable upgrades as system demand increases or as new technologies enter the market. Triple S Solutions is a trusted technology advisor and offers technical and sales support before and during project commissioning. They provide a hassle-free procurement process, in partnership with the best manufacturers, including quality guarantees in form of warranties. The advent of the Internet of Things (IoT) has simplified the approach and made technology a critical factor in combating the risk management deficient in the world today. Technology is therefore a critical enabler in creating a sustainable Security management framework. Africa is still way behind in this regard,but few discerning countries like Nigeria, Kenya and South Africa are beginning to take steps in the right direction.  The system integration capability in electronic security has tremendously helped law enforcement in several African countries in apprehending criminals and law breakers. Most evidences produced through the platform has proven reliable. Triple S Solutions’ objective is to empower security integrators to offer end to end solutions that are easily scalable and up to standard. The staff is knowledgeable about the solutions the company offers and continuously grows the competence level. The company is on the leading edge of technology to ensure that new ideas get to the customers swiftly. They also seek to build long term partnerships based on trust that ensure continuous growth.  