As the heart of any home, the kitchen should be an interior space that achieves the perfect equilibrium of function and style. That’s why, today, we’re helping you incorporate an extra bit of glitz and glamour into kitchen interior design by taking inspiration from contemporary interior trends that really sparkle. From flooring to walling, think of this as your go-to guide to creating a kitchen that’s sure to keep shining all year round. To really get a kitchen sparkling, ensure it’s up-to-date with all the latest in kitchen appliance technology. Not only will this ensure a contemporary culinary space optimized for function, but the stylish aesthetics of many of these appliances will also readily contribute to the wider aesthetic of the kitchen interior. In the same breath, modern appliances will also boast better efficiency promoting a greener approach to kitchen design that’s essential with modern, eco-conscious construction. Glisteningly smooth silver finishes on top-of-the-range metallic utensils and cookware will create an ultra-modern feel in any contemporary-style kitchen – with a futuristic shine that will stand the test of time. Pair these with exposed pendant lighting, which will contribute to a distinctly urban aesthetic with a seamlessly smooth shine across any kitchen interior. As a primarily functional space, any kitchen is going to suffer some natural wear and tear. With this in mind, you’ll want to make sure you choose an appropriate surface material with a finish that will remain sparkling after years of family dinners. Adopt a noir theme for a bold black contrast that will highlight the glimmer of appliances, and enhance this shine through the installation of impossibly smooth granite worktops. The epitome of contemporary style, this contrast of matte and glistening finishes across the interior will ensure the kitchen remains on-trend for years to come. Look to further emphasize the shine of the glimmering granite worktop by installing some under-cabinet lighting. The sharp, crisp lighting projected will elegantly reflect off shiny surfaces for an effortless sparkle that will keep the kitchen looking its very best in the long term. While walling can often be an afterthought in terms of a kitchen’s aesthetic, you can look to enhance a kitchen’s shine with some carefully chosen tiles. To really emphasize the sparkle of an interior, focus on creating contrast – a monochrome interior approach is subsequently an effective tool here. Opt for some statement white wall tiles and utilise them as a stylish splashback solution – not only will these serve a highly functional purpose, but they’ll provide the perfect contrasting backdrop for the aforementioned noir-inspired worktop surfaces. This distinctive monochrome contrast will serve to bring any subtle shine to the fore by acting as a solid matte base, creating a glamorous yet stylishly understated interior approach. Following these three easy interior tips will help you construct a fresh, glimmering kitchen interior that’s bound to hold its shine for many years to come and impress clients, ensuring a timelessly stylish approach that doesn’t sacrifice the practicality of the design. Author bio: Suhayl Laher works at Tiles Direct , one of the UK’s largest independent tile distributors and retailers – bringing design inspiration to homeowners, architects and developers.