Kohler Co., a global leader in the design and manufacture of kitchen and bath products, is thrilled to announce the launch of their Hone tap collection in Africa. One of KOHLER’s core focuses is on offering diverse product that satisfies various budgets. Enter Hone- a new range of mixers that will undoubtedly get the nod from those wanting trusted KOHLER quality at affordable prices. Bringing classic straight-lined geometry into the 21st century, the collection does away with superfluous detail in favour of minimalist form. Managing to be both understated and timeless, the Hone collection bears a reduced aesthetic that is not without the ability to evoke an emotive response. Hone is angular, but void of sharp edges, resulting in a product that’s ergonomic and gentle to the touch and eye. Of course, it upholds KOHLER’s standards of excellence too; the single brass body, with 3 applications of surface coatings, provides a lasting finish that doubles that of American industry norms. Taking Hone’s performance even further, the internal cartridge boasts a ceramic disc that provides diamond-like hardness, delivering 50 years of proven performance. Combining superior construction and understated design, homeowners are promised an enduring and stylish user experience. Available in the range are basin mixers in short and tall options, bath and shower mixers with plates and bath spouts. For its timeless and pared back looks and budget sensitive pricing, Hone is a perfect solution to fit all requirements Founded in 1873 and headquartered in Kohler, Wisconsin, Kohler Co. is one of America’s oldest and largest privately held companies comprised of nearly 37,000 associates. With more than 50 manufacturing locations worldwide, Kohler is a global leader in the design, innovation and manufacture of kitchen and bath products; engines and power systems; luxury cabinetry and tile; and owner/operator of two of the world’s finest five-star hospitality and golf resort destinations in Kohler, Wisconsin, and St. Andrews, Scotland. Kohler’s Whistling Straits golf course will host the 2020 Ryder Cup.