Polyflor SA, a specialists in vinyl flooring and wall protection solutions has in the past year donated flooring and wall protection products and services worth about US$ 27 000 to help refurbish the pediatric facilities and services for trauma and burns patients at Ngwelezana Hospital in Kwa Zulu Natal, South Africa, under the Carte Blanche Making a Difference Trust initiative. Tandy Coleman, the CEO of Polyflor SA said that this project was very dear to her team’s hearts as it cares for and treats the burns and trauma victims. “Children suffering the emotional and physical trauma of burns caused by paraffin stoves, open flames or candles falling over, is a harsh reality and an occurrence that happens all too often in this country. Burns patients need extreme and specialized care so as to avoid potentially fatal infections and, in most cases, also skin grafts to repair the damaged tissue. Upon hearing about the desperate need to upgrade the pediatric facilities at Ngwelezana Hospital, we were delighted to confirm our involvement in this worthy project,” Tandy says. Among the items donated by Polyflor’s is; Pearlazzo PUR sheeting in Mineral, Sunrise, Purple Crush (515m2), Hydro Evolve 2mm in Tigris (40 m2), Polysafe Verona 2mm in Horizon Blue (80 m2), welding rods, coving and capping strips, wall guards and corner guards. Beautiful waterjet cut-outs of typical African images, such as giraffe, buck, tortoises, bunnies and clouds using the Gradus SureProtect Endure wall protection range, transformed the facility into a highly functional, yet bright, happy space that improves staff morale, aids in the small patients’ recovery process and is unlike any other hospital in the world. “Looking back at our involvement in Carte Blanche’s MAD Projects over the past 10 years, it has truly been an honour and a privilege to support such an initiative that improves and uplifts seriously neglected and under-resourced hospitals around South Africa. It is wonderful knowing that our products have played a part in transforming the public pediatric healthcare landscape. The ripple effect of small acts of kindness, generosity and teamwork create a lasting and extraordinary impact,” Tandy concludes.