Global design and BIM software provider Vectorworks, Inc. is a finalist in the 2019 Construction Computing Awards, receiving 12 nominations. The company and its Vectorworks Architect product were nominated for eight awards in total, while the Vectorworks Nomad app received a nomination in the Mobile/Field App Technology category. Jonathan Reeves, director of Jonathan Reeves Architects, received three nominations for his projects and work as a Vectorworks trainer. In its fourteenth year, the Construction Computing Awards, also known as “The Hammers,” are structured to showcase and reward the technology, tools and solutions for the effective design, construction, maintenance and modification of commercial buildings, residential and social housing and civil engineering projects of all sizes. With 25 categories, the Construction Computing Awards allows companies from every sector of the industry to seek recognition for their efforts over the past 12 months. “On top of the very successful year we’ve had in the UK and Ireland, we’re delighted to have been recognized for quality and innovation in so many areas,” said Adrian Slatter, Vectorworks UK director of sales. “The launch of Vectorworks 2020 focused on increasing performance and enhancing capabilities in collaboration, BIM and mobile technologies. The short-listing of Vectorworks and its products shows that this strategy has proved successful.” Vectorworks received an all-time high in number of nominations this year in the following categories: Vectorworks, Inc. is an award-winning design and BIM software provider serving the architecture, landscape architecture and entertainment industries in 85 countries. Creating intuitive software since 1985, we’ve become the preeminent software built to manage the entire design process. Globally more than 685,000 users are creating, connecting and influencing the next generation of design with Vectorworks on Mac and Windows. Headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with offices in Atlanta, Georgia, Newbury and London, England and Vancouver, Canada, Vectorworks is a part of the Nemetschek Group.